DOCUMENT: microsoft-365-admin-o365-worldwide.pdf
TOPIC: Microsoft 365 Admin O365 Worldwide
============================================================

--- Page 1 of 2193 ---
Microsoft 365 admin center help
Explore resources for working in the Microsoft 365 admin center.
WHAT'S NEW HOW-TO… HOW-TO…
What's new in Stay on top of Set up
the Microsoft Microsoft 365 multifactor
365 admin… changes authenticatio…
Get started
Set up your subscription and email, add users, and install apps.
Small business help & YouTube - Microsoft 365 Get started
learning help for small businesses
Sign up and set up Microsoft
Explore all the Microsoft 365 Learn how to set up and 365.
help resources a small business manage Microsoft 365 for your
needs. business with short videos.
Install apps Migrate data
Install Microsoft 365 apps. Move your data from another
service to Microsoft 365.
Manage
Manage your subscription, services, and users, secure your business, and get help troubleshooting.

--- Page 2 of 2193 ---
Overview of the Microsoft 365 admin Users and groups
center
Manage passwords, add and remove users, set up
Learn about admin roles, how to stay on top of and manage groups, manage guest access, and
changes, and how to customize your subscription. assign user licenses.
Email and calendars Domains
Manage email settings, distribution groups, and Learn about domains, set up and manage domains,
security settings, and set up shared mailboxes. and update DNS records.
Your data and service Subscriptions and billing
Monitor the status of your service, back up data, Manage bills, subscriptions, and product licenses,
install add-ins, and upgrade to the latest apps. update payment methods, and purchase additional
services and storage.
Work with customers Troubleshoot
Share documents and use Teams to collaborate and Access resources to help you troubleshoot and fix
meet. problems with your Microsoft 365 products or
services.

--- Page 3 of 2193 ---
What is Microsoft 365 for business
Article • 05/31/2024
Check out all of our small business content on Small business help & learning .
https://learn-video.azurefd.net/vod/player?id=df5cf46f-3501-4891-9459-
f35ca0e15dd5&locale=en-us&embedUrl=%2Fmicrosoft-365%2Fadmin%2Fadmin-
overview%2Fwhat-is-microsoft-365-for-business
Microsoft 365 for business is a subscription service that lets you run your organization
in the cloud while Microsoft takes care of the IT for you. It connects employees to the
people, information, and content they need to do their best work, from any device.
Microsoft 365 for business plans
Microsoft 365 for business provides the following plans to select from to help you find
the subscription that best suits your business needs.
ﾉ Expand table
Plan Description
Microsoft 365 Apps Get desktop versions of apps in Microsoft 365: Outlook, Word,
for Business Excel, PowerPoint, OneNote (plus Access and Publisher for PC only).
Store and share files with 1 TB of OneDrive cloud storage per user.
Use one license to cover fully installed apps in Microsoft 365 on five
mobile devices, five tablets, and five PCs or Macs per user.
Automatically update your apps in Microsoft 365 with new features
and capabilities every month.
Get help anytime with around-the-clock phone and web support
from Microsoft.
Microsoft 365 Host email with a 50 GB mailbox and custom email domain address.
Business Basic Create a hub for teamwork to connect people using Microsoft
Teams.
Use Microsoft 365 apps for the web, including Outlook, Word, Excel,
PowerPoint, and OneNote.
Store and share files with 1 TB of OneDrive cloud storage per user.
Facilitate online meetings and video conferencing for up to 300
users.
Get help anytime with around-the-clock phone and web support
from Microsoft.

--- Page 4 of 2193 ---
Plan Description
Microsoft 365 Get desktop versions of apps in Microsoft 365, including Outlook,
Business Standard Word, Excel, PowerPoint, and OneNote (plus Access and Publisher
for PC only).
Host email with a 50 GB mailbox and custom email domain.
Create a hub for teamwork to connect people using Microsoft
Teams.
Store and share files with 1 TB of OneDrive cloud storage per user.
Use one license to cover fully installed apps in Microsoft 365 on five
mobile devices, five tablets, and five PCs or Macs per user.
Get help anytime with around-the-clock phone and web support
from Microsoft.
Microsoft 365 Stay up to date with the latest versions of Word, Excel, PowerPoint,
Business Premium and more.
Connect with customers and coworkers using Outlook, Exchange,
and Microsoft Teams.
Manage your files from anywhere with 1 TB of cloud storage on
OneDrive per user.
Defend your business against advanced cyberthreats with
sophisticated phishing and ransomware protection.
Control access to sensitive information using encryption to help
keep data from being accidentally shared.
Secure devices that connect to your data and help keep iOS,
Android, Windows, and MacOS devices safe and up to date.
Need help with choosing a plan?
Deciding on a plan can depend on your specific business needs. The Microsoft 365 plan
chooser is designed to help you with this. The chooser will make recommendations
based on your answers to questions such as the size of your business, your field of work,
the devices you use, and what kind of features, IT support, and security you're looking
for. See Help me find the right plan for my business .
You can also compare plans yourself.
Related content
How to sign up - Admin help (Article)
Sign up for a Microsoft 365 Business Standard subscription (Article)
Plan your setup of Microsoft 365 for business (Article)

--- Page 5 of 2193 ---
How to sign up for a Microsoft 365 for
business plan - Admin Help
When you sign up for a Microsoft 365 for business plan, your team can begin using the latest
versions of Word, Excel, PowerPoint, and other apps in Microsoft 365. You can sign up and get
started with a Microsoft 365 for business plan in three easy steps.
Check out our small business content on Small business help & learning .
For video tutorials, visit Microsoft 365 small business help on YouTube.
Step 1. Choose a Microsoft 365 for business plan
Before you start a new subscription, put some thought into the plan you sign up for. Which plan
you choose depends on your specific needs. If you don't know which plan is right for your
organization, the Microsoft 365 plan chooser can help you decide. The plan chooser makes
recommendations based on your answers to questions like the size of your business, your field of
work, the devices you use, and what kind of features, IT support, and security you're looking for.
If you need extra help with deciding which plan is right for you, sales consultants are available to
answer your questions. Go to the Plans and pricing page and select one of the contact support
options listed on the side of the page.
Watch: Choose a Microsoft 365 subscription
Check out this video and others on our YouTube channel .
https://learn-video.azurefd.net/vod/player?id=0d0dbfb5-7a00-4ed5-b21e-
c5f5f69bed43&locale=en-us&embedUrl=%2Fmicrosoft-365%2Fadmin%2Fadmin-
overview%2Fsign-up-for-office-365
If you found this video helpful, check out the complete Microsoft 365 training series for small
businesses.
Step 2. Sign up for a free trial
When you're ready to sign up, go to the Plans and pricing page to choose the plan that you
want to try. After your one month free trial ends, your paid subscription begins and you're

--- Page 6 of 2193 ---
automatically charged the applicable subscription fee.
You can cancel your free trial at any time to stop future charges. To cancel a free trial, turn off
recurring billing. You can continue using Microsoft 365 until the end of the free trial. If you don't
turn off recurring billing, your payment method is automatically charged after your free trial ends.
Watch: Sign up for Microsoft 365 Business Standard
https://learn-video.azurefd.net/vod/player?id=e1fe831f-c1a4-4d81-a475-
1d8036a047cb&locale=en-us&embedUrl=%2Fmicrosoft-365%2Fadmin%2Fadmin-
overview%2Fsign-up-for-office-365
Information we ask for when you sign up
When you sign up for a new subscription, we ask you for the following information.
Address and contact information
Country—The country/region where you plan to use the services. You can't change the
country/region later, even during the sign-up process. If you enter the wrong
country/region, you must restart the sign-up wizard.
Email and phone number—We ask for your contact information so we can contact you
about your subscription. For example, if you forget your password, we use this
information to you reset it. We also send your billing information to this email address.
７ Note
The email address you enter here is different from your Microsoft 365 email address
(your sign-in name). Because this is where we also send your billing information, we
recommend that you use an e-mail address that's appropriate for receiving business
email.
A username—The username you provide becomes your initial Microsoft 365 email address,
just to get you started quickly, and is the email address that you use to sign in. For example,
if your business name is Fourth Coffee, you might choose
rob@fourthcoffee.onmicrosoft.com for your username.
Most people add their own custom domain shortly after they sign up so they can start
receiving email at that address. For example, if you have a custom domain named

--- Page 7 of 2193 ---
fourthcoffee.com, you can set up your email address as rob@fourthcoffee.com.
Payment information—You can pay for your subscription with a credit card.
Step 3. Set up your new subscription
The steps to set up your new subscription vary depending on the Microsoft 365 for business plan
that you signed up for. To learn how to set up your new subscription, see one of the following
articles:
Set up Microsoft 365 Business Basic
Set up Microsoft 365 Business Standard
Set up Microsoft 365 Business Premium
Set up Microsoft 365 apps for business
Related content
Microsoft 365 for business training videos (link page)
Last updated on 04/29/2026

--- Page 8 of 2193 ---
Try or buy a Microsoft 365 for
business subscription
Check out all of our small business content on Small business help & learning and our
Microsoft 365 small business help on YouTube.
Microsoft 365 for business is a subscription service that you use to run your organization in the
cloud while Microsoft takes care of the IT for you. Microsoft manages your devices, protects you
against real-world threats, and provides your organization with the latest in business software.
This article shows you how to sign up for a free 30-day trial or buy a Microsoft 365 for business
subscription, including Microsoft 365 Business Basic, Microsoft 365 Business Standard, Microsoft
365 Business Premium, Microsoft Defender for Business, or Microsoft 365 Apps for business.
７ Note
Microsoft reserves the right to suspend access to its products and services if payment isn't
received after your one-month free trial ends. Storage for trials is limited.
Need help with choosing a plan?
Choosing a plan depends on your specific business needs. The Microsoft 365 plan chooser
helps you select a plan. The tool makes recommendations based on your answers to questions
about things like the size of your business, your field of work, the devices that you use, and what
kind of features, IT support, and security that you're looking for.
Before you begin
You don't need an existing Microsoft account to sign up for a free trial.
For all other procedures in this article, you need the following items:
You must have a Microsoft account, and you must be at least a Billing Administrator for
your organization. For more information, see About admin roles.
Find out what type of billing account you have.
If you have a Microsoft Customer Agreement (MCA) billing account type, you must also be a
Billing account owner or contributor to do the tasks described in this article. For more

--- Page 9 of 2193 ---
information, see Understand billing accounts and Manage your Microsoft business billing
profiles.
７ Note
If you have a Microsoft Customer Agreement (MCA) billing account type with Microsoft, you
automatically receive a product called Microsoft Entra ID Free. This product improves your
tenant management and security by tracking new tenants created with the same billing
account. There's no charge for this product, and there's no other action you need to take. To
learn more about this product, see Microsoft Entra ID Free. Find out what type of billing
account you have.
Storage limitations for Microsoft 365 trial customers
If you have a Microsoft 365 trial, your subscription is limited to 300 GB of pooled storage. Pooled
storage provides a single pool of storage for each tenant, and spans OneDrive, SharePoint Online,
and Exchange Online. The storage pool represents the maximum amount of collective storage for
these three services and is shared across and consumed by all users within the tenant. All
SharePoint sites and OneDrives contribute towards pooled storage. In Exchange Online, pooled
storage contributions include user mailboxes, shared mailboxes, and group mailboxes. All other
mailbox types, including archive mailboxes, don't count towards pooled storage.
） Important
Trial-only tenants are limited to 30 days and 300 GB.
Try a free trial subscription
To create an account and sign up for a free trial subscription of Microsoft 365 Business Basic,
Microsoft 365 Business Standard, Microsoft 365 Business Premium, Microsoft Defender for
Business, or Microsoft 365 Apps for business, use the following steps.
1. Go to the Microsoft 365 Products site.
2. Select the plan that you want, such as Microsoft 365 Business Standard, scroll down the
page, and select Try free for 1 month.
3. On the next page, follow the steps to set up your account.

--- Page 10 of 2193 ---
The sign-up process might take several minutes to complete. After it completes, you're ready to
start the setup wizard for your subscription. For more information about setting up your
subscription, see Next steps.
When you start a free trial, we automatically create a billing account for you. You use your billing
account to manage your account settings, invoices, payment methods, and purchases. For more
information about billing accounts, see Understand billing accounts.
At the end of your trial period, your subscription renews to an annual term subscription by
default, unless you turn off recurring billing from inside of Billing > Your products.
Buy a subscription from your free trial
At the end of the free trial period, most trial subscriptions automatically convert to a paid
subscription. The paid subscription defaults to the plan that you currently have. You can buy a
different plan by following the steps in Buy a different subscription.
If you want to buy your subscription before your trial is over, use the following steps.
Find out what type of billing account you have.
If you have an MCA billing account type:
1. Go to the admin center .
If you're using the Simplified view, select Billing, then select your trial subscription.
If you're using the Dashboard view, go to the Billing > Your products page and
select the trial subscription that you want to buy.
2. On the subscription details page, select Start a paid subscription now.
3. In the Start a paid subscription now pane, enter the number of licenses that you want,
select a subscription length and billing frequency, and then select Change plan.
If you have an MOSA billing account type:
1. Go to the admin center .
If you're using the Simplified view, select Billing, then select your trial subscription.
If you're using the Dashboard view, go to the Billing > Your products page and
select the trial subscription that you want to buy.
2. On the subscription details page, in the License section, select Buy paid subscription now.

--- Page 11 of 2193 ---
3. In the Buy subscription pane, choose a monthly or annual commitment for your
subscription, and then select Checkout.
4. On the Checkout page, verify the information, including Items in this order, and then select
Place order.
Cancel your free trial subscription
If you decide to cancel your trial subscription before the free trial period ends, go to the
Microsoft 365 admin center and turn off recurring billing. The trial automatically expires when
your month ends, and your credit card isn't charged.
Try a different subscription
If you already have a Microsoft 365 for business subscription, use the Microsoft 365 admin
center to try a different subscription.
When you add a subscription through the Microsoft 365 admin center , the new subscription is
associated with the same organization (domain namespace) as your existing subscription. This
association makes it easier to move users in your organization between subscriptions, or to
assign them a license for the other products they need.
Find out what type of billing account you have.
If you have an MCA billing account type:
1. Go to the admin center .
If you're using the Simplified view, select Billing, and then select Add more products.
If you're using the Dashboard view, go to the Marketplace page.
2. Find the plan that you want to try, and select Details.
3. In the Select a plan drop-down list, select the trial plan.
4. Enter the number of licenses that you want to buy when the trial ends.
７ Note
All trial subscriptions include 25 free licenses for the duration of the trial period.
5. Select Start free trial.
6. In the Checkout pane, choose the billing profile that you want to use, or add a new one.

--- Page 12 of 2193 ---
7. The Product name section lists the cost, subscription term, number of licenses, and renewal
date for the trial subscription. To match the renewal date with another subscription paid by
the billing profile, select Select a different renewal date.
8. If necessary, change the number of licenses that you want to buy when the trial ends.
9. When you're ready, select Place order.
If you have an MOSA billing account type:
1. Go to the admin center .
If you're using the Simplified view, select Billing, and then select Add more products.
If you're using the Dashboard view, go to the Marketplace page.
2. Find the plan that you want to try, and select Details.
3. On the next page, enter the number of licenses that you want to buy when the trial ends,
and then select Start free trial.
７ Note
All trial subscriptions include 25 free licenses for the duration of the trial period.
4. Choose to receive a text or a call, enter your phone number, and then choose Text me or
Call me.
5. Enter the verification code, and then select Start your free trial.
6. On the Check out page, select Try now.
7. On the order receipt page, select Continue.
Buy a different subscription
As your users change roles, they might need features that aren't available in their current
Microsoft 365 for business subscription. When this situation arises, you can add a new
subscription that includes those features and assign licenses to the people who need them.
When you buy another subscription through the Microsoft 365 admin center, the new
subscription is associated with the same organization (domain namespace) as your existing
subscription. This association makes it easier to move users in your organization between
subscriptions, or to assign them a license for another subscription they need.
If you want to move all of your users to a different subscription, see Upgrade or change to a
different Microsoft 365 for business plan.

--- Page 13 of 2193 ---
７ Note
You must move or reassign users from your free trial subscription to the new subscription
before your trial subscription expires. By doing this, you keep your data, accounts, and
configuration. Otherwise, that information is deleted.
If you have an MCA billing account type:
Check out this video and others on our YouTube channel .
https://learn-video.azurefd.net/vod/player?id=ac7fc5ca-3e7c-41aa-84e7-
4cd2300e82d2&locale=en-us&embedUrl=%2Fmicrosoft-365%2Fcommerce%2Ftry-or-
buy-microsoft-365
If you found this video helpful, check out the complete training series for small businesses and
those new to Microsoft 365 on YouTube.
1. Go to the admin center .
If you're using the Simplified view, select Billing, and then select Add more products.
If you're using the Dashboard view, go to the Marketplace page.
2. Select the plan that you want to buy, and then select Details.
3. On the product details page, in the Select a plan drop-down list, select the plan, and enter
the number of licenses that you want to buy. Select a subscription length and billing
frequency, and then select Buy.
4. In the Checkout pane, choose the billing profile that you want to use, or add a new one.
5. The Product name section lists the cost, subscription term, number of licenses, and renewal
date for the subscription. To match the renewal date with another subscription paid by the
billing profile, select Select a different renewal date.
6. Select Place order.
If you have an MOSA billing account type:
1. Go to the admin center .
If you're using the Simplified view, select Billing, and then select Add more products.
If you're using the Dashboard view, go to the Marketplace page.
2. Select the plan that you want to buy, and then select Details.

--- Page 14 of 2193 ---
3. On the product details page, enter the number of licenses that you need, select a billing
frequency, and then select Buy.
4. On the Checkout page, verify the Sold to information. Select a payment method or add a
new one. Verify the number of licenses that you need, and then select Place order.
Next steps
If you have a new account and are setting up your first subscription, use the guided setup articles
to help you get started.
Set up Microsoft 365 Business Basic
Set up Microsoft 365 Business Standard
Set up Microsoft Defender for Business
Set up Microsoft 365 Apps for business
If you already have a subscription and are adding a new subscription, you can move users to it. To
learn how, see Move users to a different subscription.
If you upgraded to Microsoft 365 Business Premium, use the steps in the Business Premium
library to set up your new security capabilities.
Visit the Microsoft 365 Business Premium library
Related content
Microsoft 365 for business training videos (video)
Add users and assign licenses at the same time (article)
Assign licenses to users (article)
Upgrade to a different plan (article)
Buy or edit an add-on for Microsoft 365 for business (article)
Add storage space for your subscription (article)
Last updated on 04/23/2026

--- Page 15 of 2193 ---
Plan your setup of Microsoft 365 for
business
Article • 06/04/2024
Check out all of our small business content on Small business help & learning .
Check out Microsoft 365 small business help on YouTube.
This article is for people who have subscribed to a Microsoft 365 for business plan.
Before moving your organization to Microsoft 365, there are requirements you need to
meet, info you need to have on hand, and decisions you have to make.
Choosing the right business subscription
When signing up for Microsoft 365 Business Standard, Microsoft 365 Business Basic,
Microsoft Apps for Business or the trial versions, you have two options for how to get
started. Evaluate three key factors to choose which best meets your needs:
Which apps and services do you want to use straight away?
How much technical skill do you have?
Do you need Microsoft to act as a processor for your data?
The table below outlines each choice.
ﾉ Expand table
Option 1 – Sign in with Outlook, Option 2 – Add a business domain
Hotmail, Yahoo, Gmail, or other email and create a new business email
account account
Available Use Word for the web, Excel for the web, Use Word for the web, Excel for the
apps and PowerPoint for the web, Teams for the web web, PowerPoint for the web, Teams
services and Access for the web. OneDrive and for the web and Access for the web.
SharePoint desktop app are included. This OneDrive and SharePoint desktop app
set of apps is best for very small businesses are included. Microsoft 365 Business
who don't need branded email Basic with Option 2 also lets you
immediately, or who already use branded access a wide range of additional
email from a different provider and don't services: New, branded business email
intend to switch to use Microsoft accounts with Outlook, shared
Exchange. You'll use Outlook with your calendars within your business,
Bookings appointment scheduling

--- Page 16 of 2193 ---
Option 1 – Sign in with Outlook, Option 2 – Add a business domain
Hotmail, Yahoo, Gmail, or other email and create a new business email
account account
existing email account (be it outlook.com, and Meeting recordings. Shared
Hotmail, Yahoo, Gmail, or other). document storage and SharePoint
sites, Microsoft Planner and Microsoft
Lists, Microsoft 365 Business Basic
and Microsoft 365 Apps for business
offer additional services with Option
2. Easier document sharing within
your business, support for the
compliance needs for your industry,
Access and control over your
employees' use of services and the
widest range of integrations of non-
Microsoft apps (for example,
Salesforce, Adobe) that work within
Teams and Microsoft 365.
Required Let's you get started without technical Requires you to buy a domain, or to
knowledge know-how. own a domain. You might need
technical knowledge to prove
ownership of the domain.
Data Available under the Supplement to the Available under the Microsoft Online
handling Microsoft Services Agreement and is Subscription Agreement and is best
best for businesses that want some remote for businesses that need Microsoft to
work and collaboration tools and are act as a processor for their data under
comfortable with Microsoft acting as Microsoft's Data Protection
controller for your data under the Addendum and need our full suite
Microsoft Privacy Statement . Subscribers of remote work and collaboration
to services using this option won't have tools. Subscribers who are in
access to an individual's user content or regulated industries or seek more
data until a domain is attached. control, both over the use of the
Subscribers should evaluate data services by your employees and over
ownership and intellectual property rights processing of related data by
considerations based on their needs. For Microsoft, should choose Option 2
example, if you're working collaboratively and attach a domain and sign up
with other users on a document stored in under the Domain Account
their account, they may choose to make enterprise-level agreement.
those documents inaccessible to you. As
such, you should evaluate data ownership
and intellectual property rights
considerations accordingly. Separately,
users may choose not to transfer
documents in their Simplified Sign-Up
account to your Domain Account
subscription, even after you invite them to
do so. This means their documents might

--- Page 17 of 2193 ---
Option 1 – Sign in with Outlook, Option 2 – Add a business domain
Hotmail, Yahoo, Gmail, or other email and create a new business email
account account
also not be accessible to you even if you
add a domain account later
Use these three factors to determine which of the two options is best for your business
needs. For more info see:
Sign up for a Microsoft 365 Business Standard subscription
Sign up for Microsoft 365 Business Basic
Sign up for Microsoft 365 Apps for business
Overview of Microsoft 365 for business setup
Check out this video and others on our YouTube channel .
https://learn-video.azurefd.net/vod/player?id=853fd01e-cdaa-4a43-90e6-
750215fdbc69&locale=en-us&embedUrl=%2Fmicrosoft-
365%2Fadmin%2Fsetup%2Fplan-your-setup
Congratulations on your decision to move your business to the cloud with Microsoft
365! Whether you have one person in your business or 20, doing a little planning will
help you get the most out of Microsoft 365 for business.
Info to have on hand before you run the setup
wizard
When you're ready to run the setup wizard and move your domain to Microsoft 365,
here's the info you'll need to have on hand:
List of people you want to add to Microsoft 365. Even if you've already added
them to Microsoft 365, if you're updating your domain information, you need to
enter their names here.
How you're going to notify your employees of their user ID and password so they
can sign in. Are you going to call them with the info? Or send it to their personal
email address? They won't have access to their email, so you can't use that.
If you have a domain name for your organization (such as contoso.com) and you
plan on using Microsoft email, you'll need to know where your domain is

--- Page 18 of 2193 ---
registered and have sign-in information.
What happens when you run the Microsoft 365
setup wizard
The setup wizard walks you through installing the apps in Microsoft 365 on your
computer, adding and verifying your domain, adding users and assigning licenses to
them, and connecting your domain.
７ Note
If you need to Assign admin roles in Microsoft 365 for business to the users you
add in the wizard, you can do that later on the Users page.
If you don't complete the setup wizard, you can complete setup tasks at any time from
admin center > Setup. From here you can migrate email and contacts from another
email service, change the domain of your admin account, manage your billing
information, add or remove users, reset passwords, and do other business functions. For
more information about the differences between the setup wizard and the Setup page,
see Differences between the Microsoft 365 setup wizard and the Setup page.
If you get stuck at any point, call us. We're here to help!.
When not to use the setup wizard: Active
Directory synchronization and hybrid
environments
There are a couple of scenarios that include either migrating data or users from on-
premises environments or setting up a hybrid system that includes directory
synchronization. If you're in either category, follow the instructions in these articles:
To set up directory synchronization with your on-premises Active Directory, see Set
up directory synchronization for Microsoft 365, and to understand the different
identity models in Microsoft 365, read Deploy your identity infrastructure for
Microsoft 365.
To set up an Exchange hybrid, the full set of instructions that guide you through all
the different ways of setting up a hybrid exchange (including setting up DNS
records) can be found here: Exchange Server Deployment Assistant

--- Page 19 of 2193 ---
To set up a SharePoint hybrid, particularly hybrid search and site features, see
Hybrid Search in SharePoint.
Move to Microsoft 365 all at once or in stages
Do you want to move your organization to Microsoft 365 all at once? If so, then
plan to move your domain to Microsoft 365 right away. Start by running the
Microsoft 365 setup wizard; it will prompt you to set up your domain.
Do you want to move to Microsoft 365 gradually? If you want to move to
Microsoft 365 in stages, then skip running the Microsoft 365 setup wizard and
consider adopting Microsoft 365 features in the following order:
1. Add your employees to Microsoft 365 so they can download and install the
apps.
2. Download and install the Microsoft 365 productivity apps to use Word,
Excel, and PowerPoint on your computer and devices.
3. Set up Microsoft Teams to use for your meetings.
4. Move your content to Microsoft 365 cloud storage (OneDrive or SharePoint
team sites).
5. When you're ready, in the admin center , select Setup in the left navigation
pane, and use the Setup page to move your domain and email.
Check that your devices meet system
requirements
Each person in your organization can install the Microsoft 365 productivity apps (Word,
Excel, PowerPoint, and so on) on up to five PCs and Macs. See the operating system and
computer requirements for installing Microsoft 365 for business.
Mobile apps can be installed on iOS, Android, and Windows devices. You can find
information on mobile device and browser support in System requirements for
Microsoft 365 .
Plan for email
If you're planning to move from an existing email service to Microsoft 365, it usually
takes two days to make the switch.

--- Page 20 of 2193 ---
Plan for email downtime
If you're going to use Microsoft 365 for your email:
To move your business email address (such as rob@contoso.com) from another
email service to Microsoft 365, you need to direct your mail to be delivered to your
new Microsoft 365 mailbox. You do this by selecting Migrate your users' data on
the Setup page, where we guide you through the updates you need to make at
your domain host, step by step.
After you update your domain host, the changes typically take effect in just an
hour or two. But be aware that it can sometimes take up to 72 hours for the
changes to update across the internet.
Because you might have email downtime, we recommend you plan to switch to
Microsoft email during an evening or weekend when you receive fewer emails.
Plan to move your existing email, contacts, and calendar
If you're going to use Microsoft 365 for your email account, you can bring your existing
email, contacts, and calendar with you. The Setup page helps you move your existing
email and contacts for most scenarios. We also have step-by-step guides to move one
or many mailboxes.
ﾉ Expand table
How many Recommendation
mailboxes?
Just a few If you don't want to use the Setup page to migrate the mailboxes, you can let
mailbox owners migrate their own email and contacts. See Migrate email and
contacts to Microsoft 365 for business.
Several If you're migrating from Gmail, see Migrate G Suite mailboxes to Microsoft 365.
If you're migrating from another email provider, including Exchange, see Ways
to migrate multiple email accounts to Microsoft 365.
Plan for file storage and migration
Microsoft 365 provides cloud storage for individuals, small organizations, and
enterprises. For guidance about what to store where, see Where you can store
documents in Microsoft 365 .

--- Page 21 of 2193 ---
You can move hundreds of files to OneDrive or to a SharePoint team site . You
can upload 100 files at a time. Avoid uploading files larger than 2 GB, which is the
maximum file size by default.
If you want to move several thousand files to Microsoft 365 storage, review the
SharePoint in Microsoft 365 Limits. We recommend that you use a migration tool
or consider hiring a partner to help you with the migration. For information
about how to migrate a large number of files, see SharePoint in Microsoft 365 and
OneDrive Migration User Guide.
Plan for Teams
You can use Microsoft Teams to make calls to other people in your organization who are
on your subscription. For example, if your organization has 10 people, you can call and
IM each other using Teams without any special setup. For more information, see Get
started with Microsoft Teams.
For larger organizations or if you're starting from Skype for Business, on-premises, or
hybrid deployments, see How to roll out Microsoft Teams.
Plan for integration with Active Directory or
other software
Do you want to integrate with your on-premises Active Directory? You can
integrate your on-premises Active Directory with Microsoft 365 by using Microsoft
Entra Connect. For instructions, see Set up directory synchronization for Microsoft
365.
Do you want to integrate Microsoft 365 with software made by other
companies? If you need to integrate Microsoft 365 with other software in your
organization, we recommend you consider hiring a partner to help you with your
deployment.
Do you want someone to help you set up
Microsoft 365?
If you have fewer than 50 employees:
Ask for help and we'll call you. After you buy Microsoft 365, you can access the
admin center (you don't need to run setup to get to it). At the bottom of the
admin center, select Need help? Describe your problem, and we'll call you.

--- Page 22 of 2193 ---
Call Microsoft 365 for Business Support with your questions. We're here to
help!
Consider hiring a Microsoft partner . If you're short on time, or have
advanced requirements (like moving thousands of files to Microsoft 365 cloud
storage or integrating with other software), an experienced partner can be a big
help.
If you have more than 50 employees, the FastTrack Onboarding Center is
available to help you with your deployment.
See also
Secure your business data with Microsoft 365 for business
Feedback
Was this page helpful?  Yes  No
Provide product feedback

--- Page 23 of 2193 ---
Sign in and set up Microsoft 365
Business Premium
This article describes how to get Microsoft 365 Business Premium, complete the basic setup
process, and identify your next steps.

７ Note
If you have a Microsoft Customer Agreement (MCA) billing account type with Microsoft, you
automatically receive a product called Microsoft Entra ID Free. This product improves your
tenant management and security by tracking new tenants created with the same billing
account. There's no charge for this product, and there's no other action you need to take. To
learn more about this product, see Microsoft Entra ID Free. Find out what type of billing
account you have.
 Tip
If you're looking for Microsoft 365 for Campaigns, see Set up Microsoft 365 for Campaigns.
Sign up for Microsoft 365 Business Premium
When you're ready to sign up for Microsoft 365 Business Premium, you have several options. You
can:
Try or buy Microsoft 365 Business Premium on your own; or
Work with a Microsoft partner.

--- Page 24 of 2193 ---
Sign up on your own
1. Visit the Microsoft 365 Business Premium product page .
2. Choose to try or buy your subscription. See Try or buy a Microsoft 365 for business
subscription. On the Microsoft 365 Products site , choose Microsoft 365 Business
Premium.
3. After you sign up for Microsoft 365 Business Premium, you receive an email message
with a link to sign in and get started. Proceed to Set up Microsoft 365 Business
Premium.
Set up Microsoft 365 Business Premium
To complete the basic setup process, you can choose from several options available:
Start with the guided setup experience for basic setup and configuration, and then proceed
to set up your security protection; or
Work with a Microsoft partner who can help you get everything set up and configured.
Guided setup process
Microsoft 365 Business Premium includes a guided setup process, as shown in the following
video:
https://learn-video.azurefd.net/vod/player?id=de65e64a-e0d9-4f67-bc18-
05d777b85e0b&locale=en-us&embedUrl=%2Fmicrosoft-365%2Fbusiness-
premium%2Fm365-business-premium-setup
The guided setup process, step by step
1. Go to the Microsoft 365 admin center and sign in.
2. A Business Advisor screen opens where you can select your top goals for Microsoft 365.
Select and save your goals, or select Skip for now.
3. By default, you're in the simplified view. In the upper left corner, select Simplified view
> Dashboard view, and then select Go to guided setup.

--- Page 25 of 2193 ---
4. To install your Microsoft 365 Apps (Word, Excel, PowerPoint, OneNote, and Outlook),
select the download button, and then follow the prompts. Or, skip this step for now
and install your apps later. Select Continue.
5. To add your organization's domain (recommended) or to use your default
.onmicrosoft.com domain, select an option and then follow the prompts. Then select
Use this domain. To get help with this task, see Add a domain to Microsoft 365.
6. To add a user, fill in the user's first name, last name, and username, and then select Add
users and assign licenses. Or, select View all users to go to your active users page,
where you can view, add, and manage users. To get help with this task, see Add users
and assign licenses at the same time. We recommend adding your administrators and
members of your security team now.
7. If you added your domain in step 5, connect your domain to Microsoft 365. To get help
with this task, see Change nameservers to set up Microsoft 365 with any domain
registrar.
8. When you see Setup is complete, it means you completed the basic setup process for
your subscription. Use the feedback window to tell us how it went, and then visit your
Microsoft 365 admin center.
） Important
Although your basic setup is complete, but you still need to set up and configure your
security settings. Proceed to set up your security protection.
Employee quick setup guide
After you add users to your Microsoft 365 subscription, give them a link to the Employee
quick setup guide . The guide walks them through signing in, getting Microsoft 365 Apps,
and saving, copying, and sharing files.

--- Page 26 of 2193 ---
Next step
Proceed to Configure your security protection.
Last updated on 09/09/2025

--- Page 27 of 2193 ---
Sign up for Microsoft 365 Business
Standard
Use this article to purchase Microsoft 365 Business Standard and complete the initial setup for
your organization. You can choose the plan that fits your needs and finish setup in just a few
steps.
Buy Microsoft 365 Business Standard : To purchase Microsoft 365 Business Standard,
follow the steps in the Sign up for Microsoft 365 Business Standard step by step section
of this article.
For Microsoft partners: If you're a partner, see Get Microsoft 365 Business.
） Important
Microsoft 365 Business Standard subscriptions are for commercial use and are intended
for business and enterprise customers. If you're a consumer looking for Microsoft 365 for
personal use, see Microsoft 365 for individuals .
Watch how to sign up for Microsoft 365 Business
Standard
https://learn-video.azurefd.net/vod/player?id=e1fe831f-c1a4-4d81-a475-
1d8036a047cb&locale=en-us&embedUrl=%2Fmicrosoft-365%2Fadmin%2Fsimplified-
signup%2Fsignup-business-standard
Sign up for Microsoft 365 Business Standard step
by step
To sign up and purchase Microsoft 365 Business Standard, complete the following steps.
７ Note
As Microsoft 365 evolves, changes, and new features are introduced, the sign-up
experience and available options can change. Additionally, the sign-up experience might
vary depending on your region and the type of subscription you choose. If you don't see
the same options described in this article when you sign up, follow the prompts you see
on screen. If you have questions or need help, contact support at Get support.

--- Page 28 of 2193 ---
1. Navigate to the Microsoft 365 for business page and then select Compare plans &
pricing.
2. On the Find the best Microsoft 365 plan for your business section of the page, select
between Business plans and Plans with Copilot, and between With Teams and Without
Teams depending on the type of plan you're interested in.
3. Choose the Microsoft 365 Business plan you're interested in, and then select Buy now.
 Tip
Comparison charts and tables are available in the Choose the right Microsoft 365
business subscription section of this article to help you choose the right plan for
your business.
4. After selecting Buy now, you're taken to the sign-up wizard. The first few pages that the
sign-up wizard displays depends on the plan you selected. For example, you might
initially see one of the following pages:
Let's get you started.
Enter your email.
Set up your subscription.
Follow the first few pages to complete the initial steps of the sign-up process. These
pages ask questions such as:
An email address that Microsoft can use to communicate with you during setup.
How many people the subscription is for.
The length of the subscription.
How often you want to be billed.
） Important
The person that signs up for Microsoft 365 for business automatically becomes
the technical administrator of the organization. You can add other
administrators later to help manage your Microsoft 365 services. For more
information, see Assign admin roles.
5. At the Tell us about yourself page, enter your information, and then select Next.

--- Page 29 of 2193 ---
The information you enter is used to create your Microsoft 365 for business account. The
company name you enter is the name that appears in the Microsoft 365 admin center.
The Microsoft 365 admin center is where you manage Microsoft 365 users, licenses, and
other features and services. This information is also included in the URL of your
SharePoint site if you choose to set one up. You can change this company name later in
the Microsoft 365 admin center if needed.
6. At the How you'll sign in page, enter your desired Username and .onmicrosoft.com
domain or accept the defaults. After entering this information, enter your desired
password and then select Next.
The .onmicrosoft.com domain, also known as your fallback domain, is the default
domain that Microsoft automatically assigns to every Microsoft 365 tenant. You use this
domain for your initial sign-in and account setup.
7. At the Add payment method page, enter your payment information, and then select
Save.
8. At the Review and place order page, review your order details, select the box to agree to
the billing terms, and then select Place order.
9. Information about your subscription is displayed on the Confirmation details page. You
might want print or save this page for your records.
10. Use the Microsoft 365 admin center to set up and configure your Microsoft 365
environment. With the Microsoft 365 admin center, you can perform the following tasks:
Add users.
Install Microsoft 365 productivity apps.
Invite your team to use Microsoft 365.
If applicable, add your custom domain.
Microsoft also sends you an email with set-up steps for Microsoft 365 Business Standard.
Choose the right Microsoft 365 business
subscription
When you sign up for Microsoft 365 Business Standard, you can choose from two options.
Evaluate the following factors to decide which option best meets your needs:
Which apps and services do you want to use right away?
How much technical skill do you have?

--- Page 30 of 2193 ---
Do you need Microsoft to act as a processor for your data?
Use the following table to compare the two sign-up options and decide which best fits your
organization:
ﾉ Expand table
Option 1: Simplified Sign-up Option 2: Use a custom business
domain
Sign up process Simplified sign-up process using Sign-up process with additional
an existing non-branded email steps.
address. Includes attaching a custom
Fewer steps to get started. domain.
Available apps Word Word
Excel Excel
PowerPoint PowerPoint
OneDrive OneDrive
Teams Teams
Access Access
Available services No additional services beyond Branded business email with
core apps. Outlook.
Shared calendars.
Bookings appointment
scheduling.
Meeting recordings.
Shared document storage and
SharePoint sites.
Microsoft Planner.
Microsoft Lists.
Easier document sharing.
Compliance support for
regulated industries.
Administrative control over user
services.
Integrations with non-Microsoft
apps such as Salesforce and
Adobe.
Recommended Small businesses that do not Organizations that want branded
organizations immediately need branded email. email accounts.
Organizations that already use a Organizations with a custom
third-party email provider. domain to attach to Microsoft
365.

--- Page 31 of 2193 ---
Option 1: Simplified Sign-up Option 2: Use a custom business
domain
Required Designed for getting started Requires purchasing or owning a
knowledge without technical expertise. domain.
May require technical knowledge
for domain management.
Data handling Available under the Supplement to Available under the Microsoft
the Microsoft Services Online Subscription
Agreement . Agreement .
Microsoft acts as the data Microsoft acts as a data
controller under the Microsoft processor under the Data
Privacy Statement . Protection Addendum .
Administrators do not have access Includes the full Microsoft 365
to user content until a domain is collaboration and compliance
attached. feature set.
Users may choose not to transfer Recommended for regulated
documents to a domain-based industries or organizations
subscription. requiring greater control.
Organizations should evaluate
data ownership and intellectual
property considerations.
Use these factors to determine which of the two options is best for your business needs.
７ Note
If you have a Microsoft Customer Agreement (MCA) billing account type with Microsoft,
you automatically receive a product called Microsoft Entra ID Free. This product improves
your tenant management and security by tracking new tenants created with the same
billing account. There's no charge for this product and there's no other action you need to
take. To learn more about this product, see the following articles:
Microsoft Entra ID Free.
Find out what type of billing account you have.
Option 1: Simplified Sign-up
With option 1, you sign in to Microsoft 365 with one of the following two types of email
accounts:

--- Page 32 of 2193 ---
A non-branded email address that isn't part of a custom domain. The email address could
be an email address from email providers such as Outlook, Hotmail, Yahoo, Gmail, or
other providers. For example, alliebellew@hotmail.com.
A branded email address that is part of a custom domain, but that the custom domain
isn't being used with Microsoft 365 email services.
With this option, you can't:
Use branded email addresses with your own custom domain.
Manage or control how other users access and use Microsoft 365 services.
Use industry‑specific compliance features.
Access or manage other users' documents or usage.
Additionally, if you later upgrade to an enterprise-level domain account (option 2), users might
choose not to transfer data created in apps such as MicrosoftOneDrive or Microsoft Teams.
Terms of service update for Simplified Sign-up mode for existing
subscribers
If you purchased a business subscription using Simplified sign-up before October 2021 and
didn't add a custom domain, you might need to accept updated terms of service. If you don't
accept the updated terms, you might experience interruptions in service and usage of the
Microsoft 365 apps. You might be sent emails or see Microsoft 365 admin center in-app
prompts to agree to the updated terms.
The Simplified Sign-up terms of use were updated to clarify licensing and data ownership for
multi-user business subscriptions. For continued service of your business subscription, select
one of the following options:
Visit the Microsoft 365 admin center and agree to use the Microsoft Services
Agreement Supplemental to continue using your subscription in Simplified Sign-up
mode.
Visit the Microsoft 365 admin center and add a custom domain, also known as a
business domain. When you add a custom domain, you need to agree to the Microsoft
Online Services Agreement.
To help you choose which of these two options best suits your needs, consult the table in the
Choose the right Microsoft 365 business subscription section of this article.
If you don't accept the updated terms for Simplified Sign-up or add a custom business
domain, your subscription doesn't automatically renew. At the end of your current subscription

--- Page 33 of 2193 ---
contract, you lose access to the Microsoft 365 apps. You can retain your OneDrive data for 90
days during which time you can copy data from it. The data is deleted after the 90-day period.
Option 2: Use a custom business domain
With option 2, you create a new custom business domain or attach an existing custom business
domain:
Use your domain with Microsoft 365 email services. This type of email is referred to as a
branded business email and helps identify your organization in email communications.
Users sign in to Microsoft 365 using domain-based email addresses.
You get access to the full suite of features in your Microsoft 365 Business subscription.
Some features might require technical steps to be completed before you can use them,
such as attaching a custom domain.
To add a domain and create a business email account, see the following articles:
Set up Microsoft 365 Business Standard.
Add a domain to Microsoft 365.
Microsoft 365 Business Standard Frequently asked
questions (FAQ)
For Microsoft 365 Business Standard frequently asked questions, see Microsoft 365 Business
Standard FAQ.
Related articles
Small business help & learning .
Set up Microsoft 365 Business Standard with a new or existing domain.
Invite users to Microsoft 365 Business Standard.
Last updated on 03/27/2026

--- Page 34 of 2193 ---
Sign up for Microsoft 365 Business
Standard FAQ
This article provides answers to frequently asked questions that administrator might have
about signing up for Microsoft 365 Business Standard. For more information about Microsoft
365 Business Standard, see Sign up for Microsoft 365 Business Standard.
What is a business email and what are the
advantages of setting one up?
A business email is an email that uses your own domain name. For example, if you own the
domain name contoso.com, you can build a website using the URL www.contoso.com. You can
also have a custom email address such as yourname@contoso.com. This type of email is referred
to as a branded business email and helps identify your organization in email communications.
How do I get a new business email
address?
You have three options for getting a business email.
Use a suggested onmicrosoft.com domain for free
(someone@mybusiness.onmicrosoft.com). This option doesn't require a custom domain but
isn't recommended for customer-facing scenarios, such as sending emails to customers.
Buy a new domain to have a more professional email address
(mybusinessname@contoso.com).
Use a domain name that you already own.
Why might I need to verify my domain to
create a business email?
If you choose to use a domain you already own, you can use it for your email address with
Microsoft 365. As part of the sign-up process, Microsoft 365 asks you to verify the domain so
you can send emails through Microsoft 365. Verification typically involves adding a DNS record
to confirm domain ownership. This verification confirms that you're the owner of the domain. It
enhances security and helps prevent fraudulent activity.

--- Page 35 of 2193 ---
Is there a benefit to paying monthly vs.
annually?
To provide you with the greatest amount of flexibility, Microsoft 365 offers different payment
options. Microsoft 365 Business Basic, Apps for business, Business Standard, and Business
Premium plans are available for monthly or annual commitment payment:
Monthly commitment payment: Pay month to month and cancel at any time.
Annual commitment payment: Commit to one year and pay monthly or annually at a
discounted rate.
How does recurring billing work?
When recurring billing is on, your subscription automatically renews at the end of each billing
term. If your subscription is active, you can turn recurring billing off or on in the Microsoft 365
admin center . For more information, see Manage recurring billing in the Microsoft 365
admin center.
What do I do if I want to change my
business name?
Contact Microsoft support to request an update to your business name. Support can help
ensure the change is applied consistently across your Microsoft 365 services. For more
information, see Get support.

--- Page 36 of 2193 ---
Set up Microsoft 365 Business Standard
with a new or existing domain
When you purchase Microsoft 365 Business Standard, you can add a domain. The domain can
be one you already own or a new one that you purchase. For more information about signing
up for Microsoft 365 Business Standard, see Sign up for Microsoft 365 Business Standard. This
article explains how to set up your Microsoft 365 Business Standard subscription with a
domain. By the end of this article, your domain will be connected and users can send and
receive business email.
 Tip
If you have a Microsoft 365 Business Premium subscription, see Set up Microsoft 365
Business Premium.
Set up Microsoft 365 for business
https://learn-video.azurefd.net/vod/player?id=de65e64a-e0d9-4f67-bc18-
05d777b85e0b&locale=en-us&embedUrl=%2Fmicrosoft-
365%2Fadmin%2Fsetup%2Fsetup-business-standard
Before you begin
To add, modify, or remove domains, you must be a Domain Name Administrator.
） Important
The person who signs up for Microsoft 365 for business automatically becomes the
technical administrator of the organization. You can add other administrators later to help
manage your Microsoft 365 services. For more information, see Assign admin roles.
Watch: Add an existing domain to your Microsoft
365 Business Standard subscription
https://learn-video.azurefd.net/vod/player?id=8ea6055b-328d-4ce9-a1ac-
fa515cd16b7d&locale=en-us&embedUrl=%2Fmicrosoft-
365%2Fadmin%2Fsetup%2Fsetup-business-standard

--- Page 37 of 2193 ---
Watch: Set up business email with a new domain
https://learn-video.azurefd.net/vod/player?id=e06209e9-487f-4f5c-be79-
d658aca544be&locale=en-us&embedUrl=%2Fmicrosoft-
365%2Fadmin%2Fsetup%2Fsetup-business-standard
Add an existing domain to your Microsoft 365
Business Standard subscription
1. If you don't have a Microsoft 365 Business Standard subscription yet, sign up for one by
following the steps in Sign up for Microsoft 365 Business Standard.
2. Once you're signed up for Microsoft 365 Business Standard, follow the steps in the article
Add a custom domain to Microsoft 365 to add a domain to your account. These steps
also guide you through the process of connecting your domain to Microsoft 365 by
adding the necessary DNS records.
Add users and assign licenses
Assigning licenses to your users gives them access to the services included in your
subscription. After you add your domain, you can add users and assign licenses to them
through the Microsoft 365 admin center . To add users and assign licenses, follow the steps in
Add users and assign licenses.
If your subscription already has existing users, make sure that licenses are also assigned to
them.
Set up users with Microsoft 365 services
For steps on setting up your users on Microsoft 365 services such as Outlook, Microsoft Teams,
and OneDrive, see User quick setup in Microsoft 365 for business .
For more information, see the following articles:
Set up Outlook for Microsoft 365 for business email.
Set up OneDrive included with Microsoft 365 .
Watch: Set up Outlook for email

--- Page 38 of 2193 ---
The following video shows how to set up Outlook for email with your Microsoft 365 Business
Standard subscription:
https://learn-video.azurefd.net/vod/player?id=e30573c6-b0d5-4007-8ff6-
8c9dfd4e39fe&locale=en-us&embedUrl=%2Fmicrosoft-365%2Fadmin%2Fsetup%2Fsetup-
business-standard
Watch: Import and redirect email
The following video shows how to import your previous email, calendar, and contacts from
previous email accounts into your new Microsoft 365 account:
https://learn-video.azurefd.net/vod/player?id=9efe5ae1-1dec-4f2c-8ea5-
fef10843388e&locale=en-us&embedUrl=%2Fmicrosoft-365%2Fadmin%2Fsetup%2Fsetup-
business-standard
Import email
In Outlook, you can import your previous email, calendar, and contacts from previous email
accounts into your new Microsoft 365 account.
1. Export your old email account to create a backup file:
a. In Outlook, select File > Open & Export > Import/Export.
b. Select Export to a File and then follow the steps to export your Outlook data. The
exported data is saved as a .pst file.
2. After exporting your old email account, import the data into your new Microsoft 365
account:
a. In Outlook, select File > Open & Export > Import/Export.
b. Select Import from another program or file. Follow the steps to import the backup
.pst file you created when you exported your old email.
For more information, see Move your old email, calendars, and contacts to Microsoft 365 .
You can also use the Exchange admin center to import users' email. For more information,
see Ways to migrate multiple email accounts to Microsoft 365 or Office 365.

--- Page 39 of 2193 ---
Invite users to join your subscription and
organization
After you set up your organization on Microsoft 365, invite other users to join your Microsoft
365 business subscription so they can access all the features of the subscription. For more
information, see Invite users to my subscription.
To join your organization and subscription, users can follow the steps in the following articles:
Accept an email invitation.
Accept an email invitation using an Outlook, Yahoo, Gmail, or other account (User).
Related articles
Migrate data to my Microsoft 365 Business Standard subscription.
Small business help & learning .
Last updated on 03/27/2026

--- Page 40 of 2193 ---
Invite users to a Microsoft 365 for business
subscription (admin)
） Important
These steps apply to Microsoft 365 Business Standard, Microsoft 365 Business Basic, and
Microsoft 365 Apps for business.
As the admin of a Microsoft 365 business subscription, you can invite users to join your
organization and start using Microsoft 365 apps and services. When you add users, they get
access to the following features and services:
Get desktop versions of Microsoft 365 productivity apps, including Outlook, Word, Excel,
PowerPoint, and OneNote (plus Access and Publisher for PC only).
Create a hub for teamwork to connect people using Microsoft Teams.
Store and share files with 1 TB of OneDrive cloud storage per user.
Use one license to cover fully installed Microsoft 365 productivity apps on five mobile
devices, five tablets, and five PCs or Macs per user.
Get help anytime with around-the-clock phone and web support from Microsoft.
７ Note
The person who signs up for Microsoft 365 for business (usually the business owner)
automatically becomes the technical administrator of the organization. You can add other
people as admins if you want help with managing your Microsoft 365 services. For more
information, see Assign admin roles.
Before you begin
Make sure to sign up for Microsoft 365 Business Standard or Microsoft 365 Apps for business.
Also, make sure to set up your Business Standard organization or Set up Microsoft 365 Apps for
business. After you complete the steps, you can share an invite with your users.
Share an invitation to a Microsoft 365 for
business subscription

--- Page 41 of 2193 ---
７ Note
Use the Microsoft 365 admin center for this task. You don't need to go to Identity or the
Microsoft Entra admin center unless you're inviting a guest user from outside your
organization. This article covers inviting people to use licenses in your Microsoft 365
business subscription.
1. In the Microsoft 365 admin center, go to Users > Active users.
2. Select Add a user.
3. Enter the person's name and email address.
4. On the account setup page, make sure a Microsoft 365 Business license is assigned.
5. Select the option to send the account information and temporary password to the user by
email, and then select Finish adding.
The user gets an email invitation with the sign-in details they need to join your organization and
start using Microsoft 365.
Next steps
Follow up with your users and make sure they got the email invite you sent about sharing your
Microsoft 365 Business Standard subscription.
Frequently asked questions
I shared an email invite but the user didn't receive the email
1. Ask the user to check their spam folder.
2. Open Users > Active users, select the user, and resend the email with their account
information if that option is available.
3. Make sure the email address you entered for your user is correct.
Is this invitation in Identity or Microsoft Entra?
No. For people who need a license in your Microsoft 365 business subscription, use the Microsoft
365 admin center and add them under Users > Active users.

--- Page 42 of 2193 ---
Use Microsoft Entra only if you want to invite a guest user from outside your organization for
collaboration scenarios. For more information, see Add and manage B2B collaboration users in
the Microsoft Entra admin center.
How can I help an employee join my business and leave
another business?
There are a couple of options in this case:
1. They can contact the business owner or admin of the other business and ask to be removed
from that business. You can then add them to your organization.
2. They can remove themselves by following the steps provided here:
a. Go to https://myapps.microsoft.com/ .
b. Sign in to your account and select your profile initials.
c. Select View account > Manage organizations > Leave organization.
d. Select Leave > OK.
How do I help someone install Microsoft 365?
Send them this article to help them install Microsoft 365: Download and install or reinstall
Microsoft 365 or Office 2021 on a PC or Mac .
How do I meet common GDPR (General Data Protection
Regulation) obligations for my organization?
Under GDPR, an employee or customer might ask that you retrieve, or delete all information
about them in your Microsoft cloud. For more information, see Data Subject Requests.
To search data that's saved in the Microsoft cloud as part of your Microsoft 365 Business
subscription, you and each user you invite need to visit
https://account.microsoft.com/account/privacy to search data in locations such as OneDrive. In
addition, you (business or admin) might need to search for employee account data that's saved in
the Microsoft Entra admin center.
Depending on how you and other users save documents, you and every user you invite might
need to use built-in search and delete functionality to discover what is saved on your Windows
PCs or Macs, on business apps on smartphones, and on non-Microsoft apps and sites.
７ Note

--- Page 43 of 2193 ---
Once you attach a domain, and you and your users use business accounts to save data into
the Microsoft cloud, you can conduct data subject requests on behalf of all users by
following guidance in Microsoft 365 Data Subject Requests for the GDPR and CCPA.
Related content
Set up Microsoft 365 Business Standard
Accept invite to Microsoft 365 Business Standard (User)
Last updated on 05/04/2026

--- Page 44 of 2193 ---
Accept an email invitation to a Microsoft
365 for business subscription (User)
Check out all of our small business content on Small business help & learning .
） Important
These steps apply to Microsoft 365 Business Standard, Microsoft 365 Business Basic and
Microsoft 365 Apps for business.
When you're already using Microsoft 365 Business with a Gmail, Outlook, Yahoo (or similar)
email address, someone (for example your administrator or business owner) may invite you to
upgrade Microsoft 365 to start using professional branded email. In this scenario, you are
switching email address and learning how to upgrade.

--- Page 45 of 2193 ---
If you're an admin of an organization where users are still using Gmail, Outlook, Yahoo, or
similar email addresses, and you're looking how to set up branded email, see the article Add a
domain to Microsoft 365.
） Important

--- Page 46 of 2193 ---
If you're an admin and you're looking for steps on how to send a user an invite to your
Microsoft 365 for business subscription, check out Invite users to Microsoft 365 Business
Standard (Admin).
Join a Microsoft 365 for business organization
Make sure you have your current account sign in details before you start these steps.
1. From the invitation email, select Set up this account.
2. Before you can sign in to your new business account, you have to set it up with your
existing user account. Select Sign in to log into your existing user account.
3. Read the information about how your data will be handled.
4. On the How you'll sign in page, learn about your new account and select Next.
5. On the Add new account to desktop apps page, open any Microsoft 365 app, select your
profile and sign in with the new username and temporary password. select Next.
6. Follow the steps on the Add new account to Outlook page to set up Outlook. Select
Next.
7. Follow the steps on the Move files to OneDrive for Business page to set up OneDrive.
Select Next.
8. On the Add new account to Microsoft Teams page, follow the steps to set up Teams.
Select I'm done when you're complete.
Next steps - Migrate your data to Microsoft 365 for business
Follow the steps in the Migrate data to my Microsoft 365 for business subscription to move
your OneDrive, Outlook, and Teams data.
No data to migrate?
Download and start using Microsoft 365 apps for business .
Frequently asked questions
I didn't receive an upgrade email?

--- Page 47 of 2193 ---
Check your spam folder. If it's not there, contact your admin or business owner and ask them
to send the email again.
I have a question about upgrading my account, who can I talk
to?
Contact our small business support experts who can help you upgrade your Microsoft 365
subscription. Learn more at Get support.
What happens to my data and account when I upgrade?
Your data remains in your old account, nothing is deleted. You are still able to sign in to your
old Gmail, Outlook, Yahoo, or other email account like you did before. You should now move
your work files to your new work account. Learn how to do that here: Migrate data to my
Microsoft 365 for business subscription.
How can I copy data to my business account?
For moving emails or contacts, check out Migrate email and contacts to Microsoft 365.
Why does it say my admin now handles my data?
When using an upgraded Microsoft 365 Business account, your documents, email and data
that you create within Microsoft 365 (and within other apps in Microsoft 365 for business
subscriptions) will be owned by the technical administrator in your organization. For example,
the person who sent you the invitation email or your business owner.
How do I get started with my new account?
You should have received an email from your admin. Please follow the steps outlined. If you
didn't receive an email, check your spam folder and if it's not there, contact your admin and
ask them to send the email again.
Does the way I login to Windows change when I get a new
business account?
No it doesn't, you can still log in the same way as before.

--- Page 48 of 2193 ---
How can I send and receive emails with my new business
email?
When you launch Microsoft Outlook using your new business account, your new mailbox is
automatically set up for you.
1. First follow: Set up Outlook for business email.
2. Then follow: Create and send email in Outlook .
How can I leave this business (and stop using this license)?
Contact your business owner or your admin. They can remove you as a user from this
organization.
Last updated on 03/27/2026

--- Page 49 of 2193 ---
Accept an email invitation to a Microsoft
365 for business subscription organization
using an Outlook, Yahoo, Gmail, or other
account (User)
） Important
These steps apply to Microsoft 365 Business Standard, Microsoft 365 Business Basic, and
Microsoft 365 Apps for business.
When someone adds you to a Microsoft 365 for business organization, you get an email
invitation with steps on how to join. In this scenario, you're joining an organization that doesn't
have a different professional email for users. You sign in with your regular email account.
） Important
If you're an admin and you're looking for steps on how to send a user an invite to your
Microsoft 365 for business subscription, check out Invite users to Microsoft 365 for
business (Admin).
Join a Microsoft 365 for business organization using an
Outlook, Yahoo, Gmail, or other account
Your email looks like this to set up your user account. When you get this email, you have to
complete a few steps before you can start using your new user account.

--- Page 50 of 2193 ---
1. From the invitation email, select Accept.
2. On the Join Microsoft 365 Business... page, select Next.
3. On the sign up page, make sure you use the email used in the invitation email, and create a
password. Select Create account.
4. Choose Accept on the Terms and Conditions page.
5. On the Review permissions page, choose Accept.
6. On the Welcome to Microsoft 365 page, you can download Microsoft 365 desktop and
mobile apps, and set up OneDrive.
Next steps

--- Page 51 of 2193 ---
Download and start using Microsoft 365 for business .
Frequently asked questions
The webpage is asking me to agree that my business has
access to my name, sign-in, and other information - what does
that mean?
In virtually all cases, any documents and chats you save into the Microsoft 365 cloud (OneDrive,
Teams) using your Gmail, Outlook, Yahoo, or other email account won't be accessible by your
technical admin. You own your documents and chats.
However, as part of setting up Microsoft 365 business, you're consenting that your technical
admin has access to a limited amount of account information. This includes information like your
account information, your name, profile picture, email address, and your sign-in details and
activity.
How can I leave this business (and stop using this license)?
There are a couple of options in this case:
1. You can contact the business owner or admin of the other business and ask to be removed
from that business.
2. Remove yourself by following the steps below:
a. Go to https://myapps.microsoft.com/ .
b. Sign in to your account, and select your profile initials.
c. Select View account > Manage organizations > Leave organization
d. Select Leave > OK.
I'm getting an error saying I'm part of another business. What
do I do?
You need to leave your previous Microsoft 365 Business subscription first. Either talk to your
previous technical admin or business owner and ask them to remove you. You can also visit
https://myaccount.microsoft.com/ and follow these steps:
1. Sign in to your account, and select your profile initials.
2. Select View account > Manage organizations > Leave organization
3. Select Leave > OK.

--- Page 52 of 2193 ---
I have a question about using this account. Who can I talk to?
Contact our small business support experts who can help you upgrade your Microsoft 365
subscription. Learn more at Get support.
The Gmail, Outlook, Yahoo, or other email account that I'm
using as a Microsoft account contains personal files. Can the
technical administrator or business owner see these?
No. Any documents or chats you saved in the Microsoft 365 cloud (OneDrive, Teams) under your
old Gmail, Outlook, Yahoo, or other email account won't be accessible by your administrator. You
own your documents and chats.
The only data accessible to your administrator is your account information, such as your name,
profile picture, email address, and your sign-in details and activity.
Does the way I login to Windows change?
No it doesn't. You can still log in the same way as before.
How can I send and receive emails with Microsoft 365 Business?
You can still use your Gmail, Outlook, Yahoo or other email account. You can continue to access
your email in the browser as you did before. For the best experience, connect these email
accounts to Microsoft Outlook .
Last updated on 05/06/2026

--- Page 53 of 2193 ---
Migrate data to my Microsoft 365 for
business subscription
Check out all of our small business content on Small business help & learning .
Follow the steps in this article to move your OneDrive, Outlook and Teams data to your Microsoft
365 Business Standard subscription.
） Important
You can still keep your data in your personal account. The data in your personal account
won't expire once you create a new business email account and migrate your data. You can
move all your data to your new business account or you can move some of your data. For
example, you can move your work documents to your business account, but keep your
personal family photos in your personal account.
Move files to OneDrive for work
Learn how to move the files stored in your Microsoft 365 Personal account to your Microsoft 365
business account. With both OneDrive accounts synced to your device, you can easily drag and
drop the files between two OneDrive folders. For the steps, check out Migrate your OneDrive
files .
Set up Outlook for email
Learn how to set up Outlook for the first time or migrate your email, contacts, and calendar
items. Check out the following articles:
Set up Outlook for Microsoft 365 for business email
Export emails, contacts, and calendar items to Outlook using a .pst file
Import email, contacts, and calendar from an Outlook .pst file
Move data from your personal Microsoft Teams
account to new Teams for work account

--- Page 54 of 2193 ---
1. Open Microsoft Teams, select your profile icon, and then Add work or school account.
2. Follow the steps to add your new account to Teams for work. Check out Sign in and get
started with Teams for more info.
Access Teams chats
When you start using Teams with your new work account your data will not be migrated over.
The best way to see your old chats is to open your old Teams account and new work account side
by side. You can do this by selecting the ME icon on the top right of Teams and choosing the
account's you'd like to open. You can start using Teams with your new work account with your
colleagues. Make sure to tell other users you chat with to start contacting you using your new
Teams for work account.
Microsoft Teams meetings
Once you have your new Microsoft Teams account for work setup, you can recreate your
meetings in the Teams calendar. Remember to delete the original meetings in your old Teams
account. This allows you to access richer functionality - for example, calendar availability when
scheduling, and the ability to record meetings. You can only delete meetings from your own
Teams calendar, so make sure you let people who you have meetings with know that you are
recreating your meetings. As you transition to use your new Teams account for your meetings, if
people who should be in your meetings are missing, contact them to make sure they haven't
joined old meeting link.
Migrating contacts
To migrate your contacts from your personal Teams account, find the contact's email address and
add the user to your new Teams account for work.
Last updated on 05/06/2026

--- Page 55 of 2193 ---
Sign up for a Microsoft 365 Apps for
business subscription
For more small business content, see Small business help & learning .
Want to sign up for a Microsoft 365 Apps for business subscription?
There are a couple of ways to get started:
Buy Microsoft 365 Apps for business and complete your own setup. To purchase
Microsoft 365 Apps for business, follow these steps.
For Microsoft partners: If you're a partner, see Get Microsoft 365 Business.
Need something different? You can:
Sign up for a home or family plan if you're not buying for a business.
） Important
Microsoft 365 Apps for Business subscription is for commercial use and is intended for
business and enterprise customers.
Sign up steps
To sign up for and purchase Microsoft 365 Apps for business, complete the following steps.
） Important
The person who signs up for Microsoft 365 for business (usually the business owner)
automatically becomes the technical administrator of the organization. You can add other
people as admins if you want help with managing your Microsoft 365 services. For more
information, see Assign admin roles.
1. On the For business page , see what's included. Under Microsoft 365 Apps for business,
select Buy now.

--- Page 56 of 2193 ---
2. On You've selected Microsoft 365 Apps for business, enter an email address that you
already use. Microsoft uses this email address to communicate with you during setup. It's
also the address where Microsoft sends you information about your bill and renewals. Then
select Set up account.
3. Enter your name, business phone number, business size, company name, and location.
Select Next.
７ Note
The admin center displays your company name. The admin center is also where you
manage Microsoft 365 users, licenses, and other features and services. The company
name is included in any internal SharePoint site URLs.
4. Help Microsoft make sure this is you. Enter a number that Microsoft can use to reach you
and select Send Verification Code. You receive a text. Enter your code and select Verify.
5. Decide how you sign in to Microsoft 365. You can sign in with your current personal email
or create a new account by adding a domain.
Choosing the right business subscription
When you sign up for Microsoft 365 Apps for Business, you have two options for how to get
started. Evaluate three key factors to choose which option best meets your needs:
What apps and services do you want to use right away?
How much technical skill do you have?
Do you need Microsoft to act as a processor for your data?
This table outlines each choice.
ﾉ Expand table
Option 1 – Sign in with Outlook, Hotmail, Yahoo, Option 2 – Add a business
Gmail, or other email account domain
Available Use Word, Excel, PowerPoint, OneDrive, Teams, Access. Use Word, Excel, PowerPoint,
apps and This set of apps is best for very small businesses that OneDrive, Teams, Access. Option 2
services don't need branded email immediately. Or businesses also lets you access a wide range
that already use branded email from a different of other services: Bookings
provider and don't intend to switch to use Microsoft

--- Page 57 of 2193 ---
Option 1 – Sign in with Outlook, Hotmail, Yahoo, Option 2 – Add a business
Gmail, or other email account domain
Exchange. You can use Outlook with your existing email appointment scheduling and
account (outlook.com, Hotmail, Yahoo, Gmail, or other). Meeting recordings.
Required Let's you get started without technical know-how. Requires you to buy a domain, or
knowledge to own a domain. You might need
technical knowledge to prove
ownership of the domain.
Data Available under the Supplement to the Microsoft Available under the Microsoft
handling Services Agreement and is best for businesses that Online Subscription Agreement
want some remote work and collaboration tools. and is best for businesses that
Microsoft acts as controller for your data under the need Microsoft to act as a
Microsoft Privacy Statement . Subscribers to services processor for their data under
using this option don't have access to an individual's Microsoft's Data Protection
user content or data until a domain is attached. Addendum and need the full
Subscribers should evaluate data ownership and suite of remote work and
intellectual property rights considerations based on collaboration tools. Subscribers
their needs. For example, if you're working who are in regulated industries or
collaboratively with other users on a document stored seek more control, both over the
in their account, they might choose to make those use of the services by your
documents inaccessible to you. As such, you should employees and over processing of
evaluate data ownership and intellectual property rights related data by Microsoft, should
considerations accordingly. Separately, users might choose Option 2 and attach a
choose not to transfer documents in their Simplified domain and sign up under the
Sign-Up account to your Domain Account subscription, Domain Account enterprise-level
even after you invite them to do so. This choice means agreement.
their documents might also not be accessible to you
even if you add a domain account later.
Use these three factors to determine which of the two options is best for your business needs.
Option 1: Sign in with your Outlook, Hotmail, Yahoo, Gmail, or
other email account
This option applies to Microsoft 365 Business Standard and Microsoft 365 Apps for Business. You
sign in to Microsoft 365 with this email address. For example, somebody@example.com.
1. Create a password on the next page, and select Create account to continue. On the next
page, read about how Microsoft handles your data and select whether you want Microsoft
Partners to contact you. Select Next.
2. Select how many Microsoft 365 Apps for business licenses you want for your organization
and select Add payment method. To continue, select Place order.

--- Page 58 of 2193 ---
3. On the Confirmation details page, you see more info about your subscription. You can now
go to the Microsoft 365 admin center to add users, install Office apps, invite your team to
use Microsoft 365, and more. Next you get an email with set-up steps for Microsoft 365
Business Standard.
This option doesn't include branded email, admin controls, or industry‑specific compliance
support. Subscribers don't have any access or control over other users' (employees) usage or
documents under this option. Users might choose not to transfer data created in storage such as
OneDrive to your upgraded, enterprise-level domain account if you don't choose Option 2.
You can add a business domain at any point to access the rest of the functionality of your Apps
for business subscription, including:
Bookings appointment scheduling and Meeting recordings
Shared document storage with OneDrive
Follow these steps to finish setting up your Microsoft 365 Apps for business subscription. You can
also add a domain when you're ready.
Option 2: Add a domain
For steps on how to buy or add a domain, see Set up Microsoft 365 Business Standard.
Next steps
Terms of service update for Simplified Sign-Up mode
Applies to: Existing subscribers of Microsoft 365 Apps for business who previously purchased
using Simplified Sign-up mode.
If you previously used Simplified Sign-up mode to purchase a business subscription in October
2021 without a business domain, you might need to accept new terms of service for
uninterrupted service and usage of the Microsoft Office apps. You might receive emails or in-app
prompts when you sign in to Microsoft 365 admin center.
The Simplified Sign-Up terms of use clarify licensing and data ownership for multi-user business
subscriptions. For continued service of your business subscription, you can either visit Microsoft
365 admin center and stay using Simplified Sign-Up (and agree to use the updated Microsoft
Services Agreement Supplemental terms), or visit the admin center and add a domain (and use
the Enterprise-grade Microsoft Online Services Agreement). To help you choose which of these
two modes best suits your needs, consult the table at the top of this article.

--- Page 59 of 2193 ---
If you don't accept the terms, your subscription doesn't renew automatically, and you lose access
to the Office apps at the end of your current subscription. Your OneDrive data is retained for 90
days for you to make copies of it, and then it gets deleted.
Frequently asked questions
Is there a benefit to paying monthly versus annually?
To provide customers with the greatest amount of flexibility, different payment options are
available.
Microsoft 365 Business Basic, Microsoft 365 Apps for business, Microsoft 365 Business
Standard, and Microsoft 365 Business Premium plans are available for monthly commitment
payment or annual commitment payment.
Monthly commitment payment: You pay month by month, and you can cancel at any time.
Annual commitment payment: You sign up for a one-year subscription, but you can choose
to pay month to month or pay for the entire year at the time you sign up. There's a discount
for using this payment option.
How does recurring billing work?
When recurring billing is on, your subscription continues to be billed each year on the day you
subscribed. You can turn it off or back on again in the admin center if your subscription is active.
For more information, see Manage recurring billing in the Microsoft 365 admin center.
How do I change my business name?
Contact our small business support experts who can help you change your business name. For
more information, see Get support.
Related articles
Set up Microsoft 365 Apps for business
Last updated on 04/28/2026

--- Page 60 of 2193 ---
Set up Microsoft 365 apps for business
For more small business content, see Small business help & learning .
Add users and assign licenses
You can add users in the wizard, but you can also add users later in the admin center.
1. Go to the admin center at https://admin.cloud.microsoft .
1. Choose Go to setup to start the wizard.
2. On the first page, you get the option to install Microsoft 365 productivity apps on your
computer. You can also do installation later.
3. On the next page, you can add users and they automatically get assigned the Microsoft 365
productivity apps for business license. After you add the users, you also get an option to
share credentials with the new users you added. You can choose to print them out, email
them, or download them.
When the sign-up process is complete, you're directed to the admin center, where you can add
users, and assign licenses.
Install Microsoft 365
After you create accounts for other people in your business, you and your team members can
install the full desktop version of Microsoft 365 (Word, Excel, Outlook, and more). Each person
can install Microsoft 365 on up to five PCs or Macs.
Go to My account > Install Office .
1. Sign in with your work or school account.
2. Select Install to download and install Microsoft 365 apps on your device.
Need more detailed steps or want to install the 64-bit version of Microsoft 365? See Step-by-step
installation instructions .
Set up mobile

--- Page 61 of 2193 ---
Install Microsoft 365 on your mobile device, and set up Outlook to work with your new Microsoft
mailbox. Everyone on your team needs to complete this step. Each person can install the
Microsoft 365 mobile apps on up to five phones and five tablets.
Get the steps for your device: Android | iOS | Windows Phone
Store files online
Microsoft makes online file storage easy. To learn which storage locations are best for your
business, see Where you can store files in Microsoft 365 .
When you create Microsoft accounts for people, they automatically get a OneDrive cloud storage
location. With OneDrive, you can access files across your computers, phones, and tablets.
1. On your computer, use File Explorer to open OneDrive. Or, from Microsoft 365 , open
OneDrive from the app launcher.
2. View and upload personal files, or share documents or folders by selecting Share and then
either inviting others to view the documents or sending them a link. To learn more, see
Share OneDrive files and folders .
For more information, see Upload files to a library .
Get started using Microsoft 365
To take a tour of Microsoft 365 and learn how to use all the Microsoft 365 mobile apps, see Get
started.
Add a custom domain
You can also add a custom domain, like contoso.com, to your account to personalize the emails if
you didn't already. For more information, see add a domain.
Finish setting up
Follow the next steps to set up Outlook and OneDrive.
Step: Set up Outlook for email
1. On the Windows Start menu, search for Outlook, and select it.

--- Page 62 of 2193 ---
(If you're using a Mac, open Outlook from the toolbar or locate it using the Finder.)
If you installed Outlook, on the Welcome page, select Next.
2. Choose File > Info > Add Account.
3. Enter your Microsoft email address and select Connect.
Watch: Set up Outlook for email
https://learn-video.azurefd.net/vod/player?id=e30573c6-b0d5-4007-8ff6-
8c9dfd4e39fe&locale=en-us&embedUrl=%2Fmicrosoft-365%2Fadmin%2Fsetup%2Fsetup-
apps-for-business
More at Set up Outlook for email .
Import email
If you use Outlook with another email account, you can import your previous email, calendar, and
contacts into your new Microsoft account.
1. Export your old email
In Outlook, select File > Open & Export > Import/Export.
Select Export to a File and then follow the steps to export your Outlook Data File (.pst) and
any subfolders.
2. Import your old email
In Outlook, select File > Open & Export > Import/Export.
Select Import from another program or file and follow the steps to import the backup file
you created when you exported your old email.
Watch: Import and redirect email
https://learn-video.azurefd.net/vod/player?id=9efe5ae1-1dec-4f2c-8ea5-
fef10843388e&locale=en-us&embedUrl=%2Fmicrosoft-365%2Fadmin%2Fsetup%2Fsetup-
apps-for-business
More at Import email with Outlook .

--- Page 63 of 2193 ---
You can also use Exchange admin center to import everyone's email. For more information, see
migrate multiple email accounts.
Set up Microsoft OneDrive
Select the OneDrive cloud icon from your taskbar and follow the steps to move your files to your
new Microsoft OneDrive folder. Select Next to set up Microsoft Teams.
Last updated on 04/28/2026

--- Page 64 of 2193 ---
Sign up for Microsoft 365 Business Basic
Want to sign up for Microsoft 365 Business Basic?
There are a couple of ways to get started:
Buy Microsoft 365 Business Basic and complete the set up. For information on how to
buy, see the sign-up steps.
Need something different? You can:
Sign up for a home or family plan if you're not buying for a business.
７ Note
Microsoft 365 Business Basic subscription is for commercial use and is intended for business
customers.
Sign up steps
To buy and sign up for a Microsoft 365 Business Basic subscription, complete the following steps.
） Important
The person who signs up for Microsoft 365 for business (usually the business owner)
automatically becomes the technical administrator of the organization. You can add other
people as admins if you want help with managing your Microsoft 365 services. For more
information, see Assign admin roles.
1. On the For business page , see what's included in Microsoft 365. Under Microsoft 365
Business Basic, select Buy now.
2. On the Microsoft 365 Business Basic page, choose the number of users, subscription
length, and billing term you prefer, and then select Next.
3. Enter an email address that you already use and want Microsoft to use to communicate with
you during setup. It's also the address where Microsoft sends you information about your
bill and renewals.

--- Page 65 of 2193 ---
4. If you're already signed in with an account to another Microsoft service, you can either
select Sign In to use this account, or select Create another account instead. If you're not
already signed in with another Microsoft service, select Set up account and enter your
name, business phone number, business size, company name, and location, and select Next.
７ Note
Microsoft displays your company name in the Microsoft 365 admin center. This is
where you manage users, licenses, and other features and services. Microsoft also
includes it in any internal SharePoint site URLs.
5. Under Tell us about yourself, fill out details about you and your company. Select Next.
6. Help Microsoft make sure this is you. Choose a contact method and enter a number that
Microsoft can use to reach you and select Send Verification Code. You receive either a text
or a phone call, depending on your choice. Enter your code and select Verify.
7. Create a new account by either accepting the suggested username or entering your own,
adding a domain, and creating a password. The domain you choose is in the form
<domain>.onmicrosoft.com. You can add your own domain to your account later. Select
Next.
8. Select how many business licenses you want for your organization and select Add payment
method and continue with checkout to Place order.
9. On the Confirmation details page, Microsoft gives you some more info about your
subscription. You can now go to the Microsoft 365 admin center to add users, install Office
apps, invite your team to use Microsoft 365, and more. Microsoft also sends you an email
with set-up steps.
Follow these steps to finish setting up your Microsoft Business Basic subscription. You can also
add a domain when you're ready.
７ Note
If you have a Microsoft Customer Agreement (MCA) billing account type with Microsoft, you
automatically receive a product called Microsoft Entra ID Free. This product improves your
tenant management and security by tracking new tenants created with the same billing
account. There's no charge for this product, and there's no other action you need to take. To

--- Page 66 of 2193 ---
learn more about this product, see Microsoft Entra ID Free. Find out what type of billing
account you have.
Frequently asked questions
What is a business email and what are the advantages of
setting one up?
A business email is an email that uses your own domain name. For example, if you own the
domain name contoso.com, you can build a website using the URL www.contoso.com, but you can
also have a custom email address such as yourname@contoso.com. The email is referred to as a
branded business email as it gives your email a professional look.
How do I get a new business email address?
There are three options for getting a business email.
Use a suggested onmicrosoft.com domain for free
(someone@mybusiness.onmicrosoft.com).
Buy a new domain to have a more compact email address
(mybusinessname@contoso.com).
Use a domain name that you already own.
Why might I need to verify my domain to create a
business email?
If you choose to use a domain you already own, you can use it for your email address with
Microsoft 365. As part of the sign-up process, Microsoft 365 asks you to verify the domain so you
can send emails via Microsoft 365. The verification confirms that you're the owner of the domain
that's sending emails with that identity, which enhances security and prevents fraudulent activity.
Is there a benefit to paying monthly versus annually?
To provide customers with the greatest amount of flexibility, different payment options are
available.
Microsoft 365 Business Basic, Apps for business, Business Standard, and Business Premium
plans are available for monthly commitment payment or annual commitment payment.
Monthly commitment payment: You pay month by month, and you can cancel at any time.

--- Page 67 of 2193 ---
Annual commitment payment: You sign up for a one-year subscription, but you can choose
to pay month to month or pay for the entire year at the time you sign up. There's a discount
for using this payment option.
How does recurring billing work?
When recurring billing is on, your subscription continues to be billed each year on the day you
subscribed. You can turn it off or back on again in the admin center if your subscription is active.
For more information, see Manage recurring billing in the Microsoft 365 admin center.
How do I change my business name?
Contact the small business support experts who can help you change your business name. For
more information, see Get support.
Set up Microsoft 365 Business Basic
For steps on how to buy or add a domain, see Set up Microsoft 365 Business Basic with a new or
existing domain.
Last updated on 04/28/2026

--- Page 68 of 2193 ---
Activate and set up Microsoft 365
Business Basic
For more small business content, see Small business help & learning .
Activate your Microsoft 365 Business Basic subscription
Use these steps to confirm your subscription is active and ready for users.
７ Note
If you bought a nonprofit offer, sign in to the Nonprofit Hub to claim or activate your
nonprofit offer. Then return to the Microsoft 365 admin center to verify that the subscription
appears under Billing > Your products. If the nonprofit offer still doesn't appear, use the
Microsoft nonprofit support Contact Us form .
1. Go to the Microsoft 365 admin center .
2. In the admin center, go to Billing > Your products.
3. Verify that Microsoft 365 Business Basic shows Active.
4. Go to Users > Active users, and assign available Business Basic licenses to your users.
5. In the admin center Home page, select Dashboard view, and then select Go to guided
setup to complete domain, email, and app setup.
Add an existing domain to your Microsoft 365 Business
Basic subscription
When you purchase Microsoft 365 Business Basic, you can use a domain you own or buy one
during the sign-up process.
If you purchase a new domain during sign-up, your domain is all set up and you can move
to Add users and assign licenses.
1. Go to the Microsoft 365 admin center .

--- Page 69 of 2193 ---
2. In the admin center Home page, select Dashboard view, and then select Go to guided
setup to start the wizard.
3. In the Add domain step, enter the domain name you want to use (like contoso.com).
） Important
If you purchase a domain during sign-up, you don't see the Add a domain step.
Instead, go to Add users.
4. Follow the steps in the wizard to Add DNS records to connect your domain that verifies you
own the domain. If you know your domain host, see also Add a domain to Microsoft 365.
If your hosting provider is GoDaddy or another host that is enabled with domain connect,
the process is easy and you're automatically asked to sign in and let Microsoft authenticate
on your behalf.
Add users and assign licenses
You can add users in the wizard, but you can also add users later in the admin center.

--- Page 70 of 2193 ---
Any users you add in the wizard automatically get assigned a Microsoft 365 Business Basic
license.
1. If your Microsoft 365 Business Basic subscription has existing users (for example, if you used
Microsoft Entra Connect), you get an option to assign licenses to them now. Go ahead and
add licenses to them as well.
2. After you add the users, you also get an option to share credentials with the new users you
added. You can choose to print them out, email them, or download them.
Connect your domain
７ Note
If you choose to use the .onmicrosoft domain, or use Microsoft Entra Connect to set up
users, you don't see this step.
To set up services, you have to update some records at your DNS host or domain registrar.
1. The setup wizard typically detects your registrar and gives you a link to step-by-step
instructions for updating your NS records at the registrar website. If it doesn't, Change
nameservers to set up Microsoft 365 with any domain registrar.
If you have existing DNS records, for example an existing website, but your DNS host
is enabled for domain connect, choose Add records for me. On the Choose your
online services page, accept all the defaults, and choose Next. Choose Authorize on
your DNS host's page.
If you have existing DNS records with other DNS hosts (not enabled for domain
connect), you need to manage your own DNS records to make sure the existing
services stay connected. See domain basics for more info.
2. Follow the steps in the wizard and email and other services are set up for you.
When the signup process is complete, you're directed to the admin center, where you can
add users, and assign licenses. After you complete the initial setup, you can use the Setup
page in the admin center to continue setting up and configuring the services that come
with your subscriptions.
For more information about the setup wizard and the admin center Setup page, see
Difference between the setup wizard and the Setup page.

--- Page 71 of 2193 ---
Watch: Set up business email with a new domain
https://learn-video.azurefd.net/vod/player?id=e06209e9-487f-4f5c-be79-
d658aca544be&locale=en-us&embedUrl=%2Fmicrosoft-
365%2Fadmin%2Fsetup%2Fsetup-business-basic
Steps: Set up business email with a new domain
1. From the How you'll sign in page on the Microsoft 365 Business Standard sign up, choose
Create a new business email account (advanced).
2. Follow the steps to buy a new domain and enter the domain name you want to use (like
contoso.com). After you complete buying your domain, you can add users and licenses and
install your Microsoft 365 productivity apps in the admin center.
Finish setting up
Follow the steps in this section to set up Outlook, Teams, OneDrive, and your website.
Step: Set up Outlook for email
1. On the Windows Start menu, search for Outlook, and select it.
(If you're using a Mac, open Outlook from the toolbar or locate it using the Finder.)
On the Welcome page, select Next.
2. Choose File > Info > Add Account.
3. Enter your Microsoft email address and select Connect.
Watch: Set up Outlook for email
https://learn-video.azurefd.net/vod/player?id=e30573c6-b0d5-4007-8ff6-
8c9dfd4e39fe&locale=en-us&embedUrl=%2Fmicrosoft-365%2Fadmin%2Fsetup%2Fsetup-
business-basic
More at Set up Outlook for email .
Import email

--- Page 72 of 2193 ---
If you used Outlook with another email account, you can import your previous email, calendar,
and contacts into your new Microsoft account.
1. Export your old email
In Outlook, select File > Open & Export > Import/Export.
Select Export to a File and then follow the steps to export your Outlook Data File (.pst) and
any subfolders.
2. Import your old email
In Outlook, select File > Open & Export > Import/Export.
Select Import from another program or file and follow the steps to import the backup file
you created when you exported your old email.
Watch: Import and redirect email
https://learn-video.azurefd.net/vod/player?id=9efe5ae1-1dec-4f2c-8ea5-
fef10843388e&locale=en-us&embedUrl=%2Fmicrosoft-365%2Fadmin%2Fsetup%2Fsetup-
business-basic
More at Import email with Outlook .
You can also use Exchange admin center to import everyone's email. For more information, see
migrate multiple email accounts.
Set up Microsoft Teams and OneDrive
Select the OneDrive cloud icon from your taskbar and follow the steps to move your files to your
new OneDrive folder. To set up Microsoft Teams select Next.
1. Open Microsoft Teams, select your profile icon, and then Add work or school account. To
add your new account to Teams, follow the steps that appear after selecting Add work or
school account.
Use a public website
Microsoft 365 doesn't include a public website for your business. If you want to set one up,
consider using a Microsoft partner, such as GoDaddy or WIX.

--- Page 73 of 2193 ---
1. From the admin center, go to Resources, and then select Public website.
2. Select Learn more under one of the options, and then sign up with a website partner and
use their tools to set up and design your site.
Watch: Create your business website
https://learn-video.azurefd.net/vod/player?id=d89ace24-5e06-4858-81bf-
512300be5d78&locale=en-us&embedUrl=%2Fmicrosoft-
365%2Fadmin%2Fsetup%2Fsetup-business-basic
Invite users to join your subscription and organization
Once you set up your organization, you can invite other users to join your Microsoft 365 business
subscription. They get access to all the features of the subscription.
Invite users to my subscription
To join your organization and subscription, see the following articles:
Accept an email invitation
Accept an email invitation using an Outlook, Yahoo, Gmail, or other account (User)
Related topics
Migrate data to my Microsoft 365 Business Standard subscription
Last updated on 04/28/2026

--- Page 74 of 2193 ---
Set up Microsoft 365 Business Standard
with a new or existing domain
When you purchase Microsoft 365 Business Standard, you can add a domain. The domain can
be one you already own or a new one that you purchase. For more information about signing
up for Microsoft 365 Business Standard, see Sign up for Microsoft 365 Business Standard. This
article explains how to set up your Microsoft 365 Business Standard subscription with a
domain. By the end of this article, your domain will be connected and users can send and
receive business email.
 Tip
If you have a Microsoft 365 Business Premium subscription, see Set up Microsoft 365
Business Premium.
Set up Microsoft 365 for business
https://learn-video.azurefd.net/vod/player?id=de65e64a-e0d9-4f67-bc18-
05d777b85e0b&locale=en-us&embedUrl=%2Fmicrosoft-
365%2Fadmin%2Fsetup%2Fsetup-business-standard
Before you begin
To add, modify, or remove domains, you must be a Domain Name Administrator.
） Important
The person who signs up for Microsoft 365 for business automatically becomes the
technical administrator of the organization. You can add other administrators later to help
manage your Microsoft 365 services. For more information, see Assign admin roles.
Watch: Add an existing domain to your Microsoft
365 Business Standard subscription
https://learn-video.azurefd.net/vod/player?id=8ea6055b-328d-4ce9-a1ac-
fa515cd16b7d&locale=en-us&embedUrl=%2Fmicrosoft-
365%2Fadmin%2Fsetup%2Fsetup-business-standard

--- Page 75 of 2193 ---
Watch: Set up business email with a new domain
https://learn-video.azurefd.net/vod/player?id=e06209e9-487f-4f5c-be79-
d658aca544be&locale=en-us&embedUrl=%2Fmicrosoft-
365%2Fadmin%2Fsetup%2Fsetup-business-standard
Add an existing domain to your Microsoft 365
Business Standard subscription
1. If you don't have a Microsoft 365 Business Standard subscription yet, sign up for one by
following the steps in Sign up for Microsoft 365 Business Standard.
2. Once you're signed up for Microsoft 365 Business Standard, follow the steps in the article
Add a custom domain to Microsoft 365 to add a domain to your account. These steps
also guide you through the process of connecting your domain to Microsoft 365 by
adding the necessary DNS records.
Add users and assign licenses
Assigning licenses to your users gives them access to the services included in your
subscription. After you add your domain, you can add users and assign licenses to them
through the Microsoft 365 admin center . To add users and assign licenses, follow the steps in
Add users and assign licenses.
If your subscription already has existing users, make sure that licenses are also assigned to
them.
Set up users with Microsoft 365 services
For steps on setting up your users on Microsoft 365 services such as Outlook, Microsoft Teams,
and OneDrive, see User quick setup in Microsoft 365 for business .
For more information, see the following articles:
Set up Outlook for Microsoft 365 for business email.
Set up OneDrive included with Microsoft 365 .
Watch: Set up Outlook for email

--- Page 76 of 2193 ---
The following video shows how to set up Outlook for email with your Microsoft 365 Business
Standard subscription:
https://learn-video.azurefd.net/vod/player?id=e30573c6-b0d5-4007-8ff6-
8c9dfd4e39fe&locale=en-us&embedUrl=%2Fmicrosoft-365%2Fadmin%2Fsetup%2Fsetup-
business-standard
Watch: Import and redirect email
The following video shows how to import your previous email, calendar, and contacts from
previous email accounts into your new Microsoft 365 account:
https://learn-video.azurefd.net/vod/player?id=9efe5ae1-1dec-4f2c-8ea5-
fef10843388e&locale=en-us&embedUrl=%2Fmicrosoft-365%2Fadmin%2Fsetup%2Fsetup-
business-standard
Import email
In Outlook, you can import your previous email, calendar, and contacts from previous email
accounts into your new Microsoft 365 account.
1. Export your old email account to create a backup file:
a. In Outlook, select File > Open & Export > Import/Export.
b. Select Export to a File and then follow the steps to export your Outlook data. The
exported data is saved as a .pst file.
2. After exporting your old email account, import the data into your new Microsoft 365
account:
a. In Outlook, select File > Open & Export > Import/Export.
b. Select Import from another program or file. Follow the steps to import the backup
.pst file you created when you exported your old email.
For more information, see Move your old email, calendars, and contacts to Microsoft 365 .
You can also use the Exchange admin center to import users' email. For more information,
see Ways to migrate multiple email accounts to Microsoft 365 or Office 365.

--- Page 77 of 2193 ---
Invite users to join your subscription and
organization
After you set up your organization on Microsoft 365, invite other users to join your Microsoft
365 business subscription so they can access all the features of the subscription. For more
information, see Invite users to my subscription.
To join your organization and subscription, users can follow the steps in the following articles:
Accept an email invitation.
Accept an email invitation using an Outlook, Yahoo, Gmail, or other account (User).
Related articles
Migrate data to my Microsoft 365 Business Standard subscription.
Small business help & learning .
Last updated on 03/27/2026

--- Page 78 of 2193 ---
Device management and application
management in Microsoft 365
Business Premium
Applies to: ✅ Microsoft 365 Business Premium, ✅ Microsoft 365 for Campaigns
An important part of your security strategy in Microsoft 365 Business Premium is protecting the
computers, tablets, and phones that are used to access company data. Business Premium
includes Microsoft Intune Plan 1, a comprehensive device management solution that allows you
to enroll, monitor, and manage devices. For more information, see Microsoft Intune overview.
Devices managed by Intune are typically company-owned devices, but they can also be personal
devices (also known as bring your own device or BYOD). In Microsoft 365 for Campaigns, most
devices are likely to be BYOD.
Intune provides two basic strategies for managing devices that access company data:
Mobile device management (MDM): The organization controls all aspects of the device.
After the device is enrolled in Intune, admins can install apps, allow or block enrollment by
platform, block personal devices, and more. If the device is ever lost or stolen, you can
remotely wipe the device. The enrolled device is said to be managed.
We always recommend MDM for company-owned devices. For instructions in this article,
see Mobile device management in Intune for device protection.
Mobile application management (MAM): The user controls the device, but the organization
controls access to company data on the device. You need to create policies that block users
from enrolling their personal devices in MDM. Application management policies prevent
users from copying business data from Microsoft 365 Apps to personal apps. If a device is
ever lost or stolen, you can remotely remove all organization data from managed apps. The
device is said to be unmanaged.
You can use MDM or MAM for personal devices. For MAM instructions in this article, see
Mobile app management in Intune for data protection.
Based on the nature of devices in your organization, you might choose one or both methods to
protect access to data in your organization.

--- Page 79 of 2193 ---
The rest of this article describes the recommended options for MDM and MAM in Business
Premium.
Mobile device management using Intune for
device protection
In Business Premium, we recommend enrolling company-owned devices in Microsoft Intune as
described in the following subsections.
Step 1: Configure device enrollment restrictions for Intune
You might need to block users from enrolling certain types of eligible devices in Intune. For
example, you intend to use MAM for personal iOS and Android phones, so you want to prevent
users from enrolling those devices in Intune.
For instructions, see Create device platform restrictions.
Step 2: Configure device enrollment prerequisites for Intune
For the device types that you intend to enroll in MDM, you need to take care of some
prerequisites:
Apple: Get an Apple MDM push certificate
Android: Connect your Intune account to your managed Google Play account
Windows: Set up automatic enrollment for Windows devices
Enterprise State Roaming gives users a unified experience across their Windows devices
by synchronizing and storing specific user settings. For more information, see Enable
Enterprise State Roaming in Microsoft Entra ID.
 Tip
To configure Microsoft Edge enterprise sync to synchronize Microsoft Edge data, see
Configure Microsoft Edge enterprise sync.
Configure Intune to automatically install Microsoft 365 Apps on Windows devices. For
instructions, see Add Microsoft 365 Apps to Windows 10/11 devices with Microsoft
Intune.

--- Page 80 of 2193 ---
Windows Autopilot uses a supported version of Windows Semi-Annual Enterprise
Channel to set up PCs with business critical apps, policies, and features (for example,
BitLocker) before you give the PCs to users. Autopilot can also reset, repurpose, and
recover Windows devices. For more information, see Overview of Windows Autopilot.
Step 3: Configure compliance policy settings in Intune
Compliance policy settings are organization-wide and determine how Intune treats devices with
no device compliance policies (also known as compliance policies) assigned. Possible values are:
Mark devices with no compliance policy assigned as > Compliant: Devices are considered
compliant until verified as not compliant after a device compliance policy is assigned. This
value is the default.
Mark devices with no compliance policy assigned as > Not compliant: Devices are
considered not compliant until verified as compliant after a device compliance policy is
assigned.
Typically, we recommend the default value Compliant. But, if you're using device-based
Conditional Access policies as described in the next section, and you want to ensure that only
compliant devices are ever allowed to access company resources, use the value Mark devices
with no compliance policy assigned as > Not compliant.
For more information, see Compliance policy settings.
Step 4: Create device compliance policies in Intune
We recommend creating a device compliance policy (also known as a compliance policy) for
every type of device you plan on enrolling in MDM. The compliance policy for each device type
specifies the minimum configuration that allows access to company data. The policies aren't
enforced until a corresponding device-based Conditional Access policy is applied to the device.
Here are our recommendations:
Windows devices:
Compliance settings:
Device health: Set the following options to Require:
BitLocker
Secure Boot
Code integrity
System security:

--- Page 81 of 2193 ---
Device security: Set the following options to Require:
Firewall
Trusted platform module (TPM)
Antivirus
Antispyware
Defender: Set the following options to Require:
Microsoft Defender Antimalware
Microsoft Defender Antimalware security intelligence up-to-date
Real-time protection
Actions for non-compliance:
Mark device noncompliant: Change the Schedule (days after noncompliance) value
from Immediately to 1.
Assignments: For Included groups, select Add all users.
Other device types: Select the following options where available:
Require a password to unlock the device.
Require device encryption.
Require code integrity.
For more information, see Create a compliance policy in Microsoft Intune.
Step 5: Create device-based Conditional Access policies
We recommend the following device-based Conditional Access policies for Intune:
Require MFA for Intune device enrollment
Block unknown or unsupported device platforms
Require approved client apps or an app protection policy
Require a compliant device, Microsoft Entra hybrid joined device, or MFA for all users
Step 6: Enroll devices in Intune
After you do the previous steps to prepare and configure Intune, now users can enroll their
devices. For instructions, see the following articles:
iOS/iPadOS: Set up personal iOS device for work or school
Android: Enroll device with Android work profile
Linux: Enroll Linux device in Intune
macOS: Enroll your macOS device using the Company Portal app
Windows: Enroll Windows 10/11 devices in Intune

--- Page 82 of 2193 ---
More options for MDM
View and monitor device health in the Defender portal: In Defender for Business or Intune
in Business Premium, you can view device details, such as health state and exposure level
for all onboarded devices. You can also take actions on devices, such as running an antivirus
scan or starting an automated investigation. For more information, see Manage devices in
Microsoft Defender for Business and Review detected threats.
On managed devices, users can take the following steps to protect their devices:
Set active hours on Windows devices: Antivirus, anti-malware, and other threat protection
capabilities are automatically installed, configured, and regularly updated on onboarded
devices. Updates that require device restarts can be done after your working hours as
defined by the active hours setting on Windows devices. For more information, Keep your
PC up to date .
Mobile app management in Intune for data protection
In Business Premium, mobile app management (MAM) is available to protect access to company
data on personal devices without the full device management of MDM. The following subsections
describe the requirements for configuring MAM.
Step 1: Configure device enrollment restrictions for MAM
Personal devices that you plan on protecting with MAM can't be enrolled in Intune (MDM). To
prevent specific device types from enrolling in MDM, see Create device platform restrictions.
Step 2: Deploy app protection policies in MAM
App protection policies (APP) enable MAM on iOS/iPadOS and Android devices without requiring
enrollment of the devices in Intune (MDM). For example:
Require a PIN to open Microsoft Outlook on the device.
Prevent saving company data locally on the device.
For more information, see How to create and assign app protection policies.
Our basic recommendations include:
Create policies for both iOS/iPadOS and Android devices.
Target policy to: Select Core Microsoft Apps (which includes Outlook).

--- Page 83 of 2193 ---
Backup org data to iTunes and iCloud backups: Select Block.
Send org data to other apps: Select Policy managed apps.
Save copies of org data: Select Block.
Allow user to save copies to selected services: Select OneDrive and SharePoint.
Our recommendations for distinct security tiers are described in Data protection framework using
app protection policies.
More options for MAM
Multifactor authentication (MFA) and a supported authenticator app like the Microsoft
Authenticator app are required by default for all Business Premium accounts. For more
information, see Multifactor authentication for Microsoft 365.
Otherwise, the device owner is responsible for protecting and maintaining their own device in
MAM scenarios. They can take the following steps:
Turn on encryption and firewall protection. Disk encryption protects data when devices are
lost or stolen. Firewall protection helps protect devices from unwanted contact by other
computers on the internet or other networks. For more information, see Protect unmanaged
devices.
Make sure antivirus/antimalware software is installed and up to date: For more
information, see Stay protected with Windows Security .
Keep up with operating system and application updates: To learn more, see Keep your PC
up to date .
Next steps
Set up information protection capabilities
Protect users against phishing and other attacks in Microsoft 365 for business
Collaborate and share securely
Last updated on 01/08/2026

--- Page 84 of 2193 ---
Download perpetual software and product
license keys in Microsoft 365
07/08/2025
This article explains how to download software and product license keys for perpetual software
bought through the Cloud Solution Provider (CSP) program.
Before you begin
You must be a Global Administrator to do the steps in this article. For more information,
see About admin roles.
If you're a partner who's an admin on behalf of (AOBO) a customer, you must sign in to
the customer's organization with an admin account created in the organization.
If there are multiple billing accounts, you must select the account that the product was
purchased on. For more information, see Select a default billing account.
If you don't have access to the billing account, you must self elevate. For more
information, see No billing account found for buying products.
Ｕ Caution
Global Administrators have almost unlimited access to your organization's settings and
most of its data. To help keep your organization secure, we recommend that you limit the
number of Global Administrators as much as possible.
Download software and product license keys
1. In the Microsoft 365 admin center, go to the Billing > Your products page.
2. On the Products tab, in the Software section, select the software that you want to
download.
3. On the subscription details page, in the Downloads & keys section, choose the Product
version, Language, and CPU & file type, then select Download.
4. To download the key, select Copy key to clipboard.
5. In the right pane, select Copy, then close the pane.
6. Paste the key in a file in a secure location and then enter it as instructed during the
software installation. The key is needed to activate the downloaded software.
Download Dual Use Rights keys

--- Page 85 of 2193 ---
Dual Use Rights keys are a benefit of some specific Dynamics 365 subscription licenses.
1. In the Microsoft 365 admin center, go to the Billing > Your products page.
2. Choose the Dynamics 365 Service that has a Dual Use Right key.
3. On the subscription details page, in the Registration Keys section, select the version to
download.
７ Note
If the product only has one version to download, you can't select other versions.
4. To download the installation file, select Download Software. To download the activation
file, select Download License Key.

--- Page 86 of 2193 ---
Install Microsoft 365 apps
Summarize this article for me
After you set up Microsoft 365, install Microsoft 365 apps on your Mac, PC, or mobile devices.
Watch: Install Microsoft 365 apps
This video shows how to install Microsoft 365 apps on a Windows device.
https://learn-video.azurefd.net/vod/player?id=dc089097-90e3-4e20-a10b-
985e58240101&locale=en-us&embedUrl=%2Fmicrosoft-
365%2Fadmin%2Fsetup%2Finstall-applications
Install Microsoft 365 apps in Windows
Microsoft 365 apps appear in your Start menu. If you don't see them, follow these steps to
install Microsoft 365 apps in Windows:
1. Sign in to the Microsoft 365 Apps by using your work account.
2. In the upper-right corner, select Install apps, and then select Microsoft 365 apps.
3. The My account page opens. Under Office apps & devices, select Install Office.
4. OfficeSetup.exe downloads to your Downloads folder. After the download finishes, open
OfficeSetup.exe to start the installation.
5. When prompted with Do you want to allow this app to make changes to your device?,
select Yes to start the installation.
6. The installation continues and might take several minutes to complete. When it
completes, the You're all set! window displays. Select Close.
7. After installation, the apps appear in the Start menu and are ready to use.
Learn more about installing Microsoft 365 apps
The following articles have additional information on installing Microsoft 365 apps:
Microsoft 365 Apps
Download and install or reinstall Microsoft 365 or Office 2024 on a PC or Mac .

--- Page 87 of 2193 ---
Microsoft Project, Microsoft Visio, Skype for Business
Install Project .
Install Visio or access Visio for the web .
Install Skype for Business .
Microsoft 365 on mobile devices
Set up Office apps and email on a mobile device .
Add email account in Microsoft Outlook
Add an email account to Outlook for Windows .
Add an email account to Outlook for Mac .
Microsoft 365 for business
Upgrade your Microsoft 365 for business users to the latest apps.
Related content
Troubleshoot installing Office and Microsoft 365 .
Small business help & learning .
Microsoft 365 small business help on YouTube .
Last updated on 02/19/2026

--- Page 88 of 2193 ---
Device management and application
management in Microsoft 365
Business Premium
Applies to: ✅ Microsoft 365 Business Premium, ✅ Microsoft 365 for Campaigns
An important part of your security strategy in Microsoft 365 Business Premium is protecting the
computers, tablets, and phones that are used to access company data. Business Premium
includes Microsoft Intune Plan 1, a comprehensive device management solution that allows you
to enroll, monitor, and manage devices. For more information, see Microsoft Intune overview.
Devices managed by Intune are typically company-owned devices, but they can also be personal
devices (also known as bring your own device or BYOD). In Microsoft 365 for Campaigns, most
devices are likely to be BYOD.
Intune provides two basic strategies for managing devices that access company data:
Mobile device management (MDM): The organization controls all aspects of the device.
After the device is enrolled in Intune, admins can install apps, allow or block enrollment by
platform, block personal devices, and more. If the device is ever lost or stolen, you can
remotely wipe the device. The enrolled device is said to be managed.
We always recommend MDM for company-owned devices. For instructions in this article,
see Mobile device management in Intune for device protection.
Mobile application management (MAM): The user controls the device, but the organization
controls access to company data on the device. You need to create policies that block users
from enrolling their personal devices in MDM. Application management policies prevent
users from copying business data from Microsoft 365 Apps to personal apps. If a device is
ever lost or stolen, you can remotely remove all organization data from managed apps. The
device is said to be unmanaged.
You can use MDM or MAM for personal devices. For MAM instructions in this article, see
Mobile app management in Intune for data protection.
Based on the nature of devices in your organization, you might choose one or both methods to
protect access to data in your organization.

--- Page 89 of 2193 ---
The rest of this article describes the recommended options for MDM and MAM in Business
Premium.
Mobile device management using Intune for
device protection
In Business Premium, we recommend enrolling company-owned devices in Microsoft Intune as
described in the following subsections.
Step 1: Configure device enrollment restrictions for Intune
You might need to block users from enrolling certain types of eligible devices in Intune. For
example, you intend to use MAM for personal iOS and Android phones, so you want to prevent
users from enrolling those devices in Intune.
For instructions, see Create device platform restrictions.
Step 2: Configure device enrollment prerequisites for Intune
For the device types that you intend to enroll in MDM, you need to take care of some
prerequisites:
Apple: Get an Apple MDM push certificate
Android: Connect your Intune account to your managed Google Play account
Windows: Set up automatic enrollment for Windows devices
Enterprise State Roaming gives users a unified experience across their Windows devices
by synchronizing and storing specific user settings. For more information, see Enable
Enterprise State Roaming in Microsoft Entra ID.
 Tip
To configure Microsoft Edge enterprise sync to synchronize Microsoft Edge data, see
Configure Microsoft Edge enterprise sync.
Configure Intune to automatically install Microsoft 365 Apps on Windows devices. For
instructions, see Add Microsoft 365 Apps to Windows 10/11 devices with Microsoft
Intune.

--- Page 90 of 2193 ---
Windows Autopilot uses a supported version of Windows Semi-Annual Enterprise
Channel to set up PCs with business critical apps, policies, and features (for example,
BitLocker) before you give the PCs to users. Autopilot can also reset, repurpose, and
recover Windows devices. For more information, see Overview of Windows Autopilot.
Step 3: Configure compliance policy settings in Intune
Compliance policy settings are organization-wide and determine how Intune treats devices with
no device compliance policies (also known as compliance policies) assigned. Possible values are:
Mark devices with no compliance policy assigned as > Compliant: Devices are considered
compliant until verified as not compliant after a device compliance policy is assigned. This
value is the default.
Mark devices with no compliance policy assigned as > Not compliant: Devices are
considered not compliant until verified as compliant after a device compliance policy is
assigned.
Typically, we recommend the default value Compliant. But, if you're using device-based
Conditional Access policies as described in the next section, and you want to ensure that only
compliant devices are ever allowed to access company resources, use the value Mark devices
with no compliance policy assigned as > Not compliant.
For more information, see Compliance policy settings.
Step 4: Create device compliance policies in Intune
We recommend creating a device compliance policy (also known as a compliance policy) for
every type of device you plan on enrolling in MDM. The compliance policy for each device type
specifies the minimum configuration that allows access to company data. The policies aren't
enforced until a corresponding device-based Conditional Access policy is applied to the device.
Here are our recommendations:
Windows devices:
Compliance settings:
Device health: Set the following options to Require:
BitLocker
Secure Boot
Code integrity
System security:

--- Page 91 of 2193 ---
Device security: Set the following options to Require:
Firewall
Trusted platform module (TPM)
Antivirus
Antispyware
Defender: Set the following options to Require:
Microsoft Defender Antimalware
Microsoft Defender Antimalware security intelligence up-to-date
Real-time protection
Actions for non-compliance:
Mark device noncompliant: Change the Schedule (days after noncompliance) value
from Immediately to 1.
Assignments: For Included groups, select Add all users.
Other device types: Select the following options where available:
Require a password to unlock the device.
Require device encryption.
Require code integrity.
For more information, see Create a compliance policy in Microsoft Intune.
Step 5: Create device-based Conditional Access policies
We recommend the following device-based Conditional Access policies for Intune:
Require MFA for Intune device enrollment
Block unknown or unsupported device platforms
Require approved client apps or an app protection policy
Require a compliant device, Microsoft Entra hybrid joined device, or MFA for all users
Step 6: Enroll devices in Intune
After you do the previous steps to prepare and configure Intune, now users can enroll their
devices. For instructions, see the following articles:
iOS/iPadOS: Set up personal iOS device for work or school
Android: Enroll device with Android work profile
Linux: Enroll Linux device in Intune
macOS: Enroll your macOS device using the Company Portal app
Windows: Enroll Windows 10/11 devices in Intune

--- Page 92 of 2193 ---
More options for MDM
View and monitor device health in the Defender portal: In Defender for Business or Intune
in Business Premium, you can view device details, such as health state and exposure level
for all onboarded devices. You can also take actions on devices, such as running an antivirus
scan or starting an automated investigation. For more information, see Manage devices in
Microsoft Defender for Business and Review detected threats.
On managed devices, users can take the following steps to protect their devices:
Set active hours on Windows devices: Antivirus, anti-malware, and other threat protection
capabilities are automatically installed, configured, and regularly updated on onboarded
devices. Updates that require device restarts can be done after your working hours as
defined by the active hours setting on Windows devices. For more information, Keep your
PC up to date .
Mobile app management in Intune for data protection
In Business Premium, mobile app management (MAM) is available to protect access to company
data on personal devices without the full device management of MDM. The following subsections
describe the requirements for configuring MAM.
Step 1: Configure device enrollment restrictions for MAM
Personal devices that you plan on protecting with MAM can't be enrolled in Intune (MDM). To
prevent specific device types from enrolling in MDM, see Create device platform restrictions.
Step 2: Deploy app protection policies in MAM
App protection policies (APP) enable MAM on iOS/iPadOS and Android devices without requiring
enrollment of the devices in Intune (MDM). For example:
Require a PIN to open Microsoft Outlook on the device.
Prevent saving company data locally on the device.
For more information, see How to create and assign app protection policies.
Our basic recommendations include:
Create policies for both iOS/iPadOS and Android devices.
Target policy to: Select Core Microsoft Apps (which includes Outlook).

--- Page 93 of 2193 ---
Backup org data to iTunes and iCloud backups: Select Block.
Send org data to other apps: Select Policy managed apps.
Save copies of org data: Select Block.
Allow user to save copies to selected services: Select OneDrive and SharePoint.
Our recommendations for distinct security tiers are described in Data protection framework using
app protection policies.
More options for MAM
Multifactor authentication (MFA) and a supported authenticator app like the Microsoft
Authenticator app are required by default for all Business Premium accounts. For more
information, see Multifactor authentication for Microsoft 365.
Otherwise, the device owner is responsible for protecting and maintaining their own device in
MAM scenarios. They can take the following steps:
Turn on encryption and firewall protection. Disk encryption protects data when devices are
lost or stolen. Firewall protection helps protect devices from unwanted contact by other
computers on the internet or other networks. For more information, see Protect unmanaged
devices.
Make sure antivirus/antimalware software is installed and up to date: For more
information, see Stay protected with Windows Security .
Keep up with operating system and application updates: To learn more, see Keep your PC
up to date .
Next steps
Set up information protection capabilities
Protect users against phishing and other attacks in Microsoft 365 for business
Collaborate and share securely
Last updated on 01/08/2026

--- Page 94 of 2193 ---
Set up mobile devices for Microsoft 365 for
business
Summarize this article for me
Learn how to set up mobile devices for Microsoft 365 for business on an iPhone or Android
phone. After you complete these steps, your organization's security policies protect your work
files created in Microsoft 365 apps, helping keep your business data secure.
The example in the tabs is for Microsoft Outlook, but it applies to any other Microsoft 365 apps
you install.
Install Microsoft 365 apps on your mobile device
Select the tab for your mobile device to see the steps to install Microsoft 365 apps and set up
your work account:
iPhone
Watch a short video on how to set up Microsoft 365 productivity apps on iOS devices with
Microsoft 365 for business.
https://learn-video.azurefd.net/vod/player?id=e18c34a7-f392-458d-a062-
3e1b53588796&locale=en-us&embedUrl=%2Fmicrosoft-365%2Fadmin%2Fsetup%2Fset-
up-mobile-devices
 Tip
If you found this video helpful, check out the complete training series for small
businesses and users new to Microsoft 365.
1. Go to the App Store.

--- Page 95 of 2193 ---
2. In the search field, enter Microsoft Outlook and then select Get to install Outlook.
If you previously installed the app, a cloud icon appears instead of the Get button.
Select the cloud icon to install Outlook.
3. When the installation finishes, select the Open button to open Outlook, and then
select Get Started.

--- Page 96 of 2193 ---
4. Enter your work email address on the Add Email Account screen and then select Add
Account.
5. Enter your Microsoft 365 for business credentials and then select Sign in.
6. If your organization is protecting files in apps, the following message appears in a
dialog:
Your organization is now protecting the data in the app. You need to restart the
app to continue.

--- Page 97 of 2193 ---
To restart Outlook, follow these steps:
a. Select OK and close Outlook.
b. Locate Outlook on the iPhone and then select it to reopen it.
c. When prompted, enter a PIN and verify it.

--- Page 98 of 2193 ---
7. Outlook on your iPhone is ready to use.
Related content
Microsoft 365 for business training videos.
Small business help & learning .
Last updated on 03/06/2026

--- Page 99 of 2193 ---
Sign in to Outlook with your Microsoft 365
for business email account
For more small business content, see Small business help & learning .
Check out Microsoft 365 small business help on YouTube.
Watch: Steps to sign in to Outlook
Check out this video and others on the YouTube channel .
https://learn-video.azurefd.net/vod/player?id=e30573c6-b0d5-4007-8ff6-
8c9dfd4e39fe&locale=en-us&embedUrl=%2Fmicrosoft-365%2Fadmin%2Fsetup%2Fsetup-
outlook
After you install the apps in Microsoft 365, set up Outlook to start using email, calendar, and
contacts. Here's how:
1. Open the Start menu. Search for Outlook, and select it.
2. Enter your Microsoft 365 email address, and select Connect.
3. Enter any other email addresses that you want to use, such as your previous or personal
email address. Select Next.
4. If prompted, enter a password, and then select Sign in.
5. After you add all of your accounts, choose if you want to set up Outlook mobile or wait until
later.
6. Select Done. It might take several minutes for Outlook to download your email and other
data.
Now you can view email for the accounts you added. You can also view your calendar, contacts,
and tasks.
） Note: The author created this article with assistance from AI. Learn more
Last updated on 04/28/2026

--- Page 100 of 2193 ---
Move files to OneDrive for Business
Article • 12/18/2023
Check out all of our small business content on Small business help & learning .
Check out Microsoft 365 small business help on YouTube.
Watch: Move your files to OneDrive for
Business
Check out this video and others on our YouTube channel .
After you sign up for a Microsoft 365 for business subscription, you'll want to copy your
existing personal or work files to OneDrive for work. OneDrive is a good place to store
work files or sensitive business files that you want to control access to.
Watch
In this video, we'll show you how to move your OneDrive files from Microsoft 365 Family
folder to your Microsoft 365 for business OneDrive folder.
https://learn-video.azurefd.net/vod/player?id=2908d3b4-bf17-4bd9-bedf-
342d90bd3f66&locale=en-us&embedUrl=%2Fmicrosoft-
365%2Fadmin%2Fsetup%2Ffiles-to-onedrive
Steps
1. Select the white or blue OneDrive cloud icon in the Windows taskbar notification
area.
2. Select the Help and settings icon, then Settings > Account > Add an account.
3. Enter your email address, select Sign in, and enter your password. Select Next.
4. Go through the short tutorial, and then select Open my OneDrive folder. If you
also use the personal version of OneDrive, you'll see it here.
5. In File Explorer, go to the files you want to copy.
6. Select the files, and then drag and drop them into your OneDrive folder. Blue
circular arrows beside your files mean that they're syncing to the cloud. When
they're done syncing, green check marks are displayed.
In addition to working on your OneDrive files locally, you can access them from your
web browser:

--- Page 101 of 2193 ---
1. In your web browser, sign in to office.com with your work email.
2. Choose OneDrive. All of your files are listed, and you can work on them in the
browser from any computer.
７ Note
When multiple users use a shared computer and sync files via OneDrive locally, the
available storage might be consumed very quickly.
Feedback
Was this page helpful?  Yes  No
Provide product feedback

--- Page 102 of 2193 ---
Move files to SharePoint
Article • 06/25/2024
Check out all of our small business content on Small business help & learning .
Check out Microsoft 365 small business help on YouTube.
Watch: Move company files to SharePoint
Check out this video and others on our YouTube channel .
https://learn-video.azurefd.net/vod/player?id=ed0b342e-63e2-4e26-9f86-
e1761e210d7d&locale=en-us&embedUrl=%2Fmicrosoft-
365%2Fadmin%2Fsetup%2Ffiles-to-sharepoint
After you sign up for Microsoft 365 Business Premium, you'll want to copy your
company work files to SharePoint. SharePoint is a good place to store shared company
files that everyone needs access to. This typically replaces the use of a file share or
network drive.
1. Open Microsoft Teams, and then open a team that everyone in your business has
access to.
2. Select Files , and then select Open in SharePoint from the ellipsis.
3. Select Documents to go to the location where everything is stored on the site.
4. Select Sync , and then select Yes. This synchronizes the files of the SharePoint site
to your computer.
5. In File Explorer, you see the synced documents folder from your company's
SharePoint site. If you synchronize more SharePoint sites, they show up above or
below this one. Right-click the synced documents folder, and open it in a new
window to see it side by side with the company files you want to move.
6. Select all the files you want to move, and then drag them to your synced
SharePoint folder. Blue circular arrows beside your files mean that they're syncing
to the SharePoint site. When they finish syncing, green check marks are displayed.
7. Return to your SharePoint site to see the files that synced to the cloud.
In addition to working on your files directly from your computer, you can access them in
a web browser on any computer.
You can now access your files from your SharePoint site or Teams.
Feedback

--- Page 103 of 2193 ---
Was this page helpful?  Yes  No
Provide product feedback

--- Page 104 of 2193 ---
IT Admins - Microsoft Teams deployment
overview
Applies to: Microsoft Teams
 Tip
Are you looking for information on how to install the Teams client on your PC or mobile
device? Go here: Download Microsoft Teams .
There are several options for setting up Teams. To help you find the information you need, we've
split up some articles into two audiences: Small business (fewer than 50 users) and
Medium/large business (more than 50 users).
 Tip
As a companion to this article, we recommend using the Microsoft Teams automated setup
guide when signed in to the Microsoft 365 admin center. This guide will customize your
experience based on your environment. To review best practices without signing in and
activating automated setup features, go to the Microsoft 365 setup portal .
Start with a pilot rollout
If you're a larger organization, pilot Teams with a small group of early adopters so you can learn
about Teams and start planning your org-wide deployment. Later, use the guidance on the
Microsoft Teams Adoption site to help you roll out Teams across your organization.
We recommend rolling out Teams in stages, workload by workload, as your organization is ready.
You don't have to wait until you've completed one step before you move to the next. Some
organizations might want to roll out all Teams features at once, while others might prefer a
phased approach. Here are the Teams workloads, in the order we recommend rolling them out:
Chat, teams, channels, & apps
Meetings, webinars, and town halls
Audio conferencing
Cloud voice

--- Page 105 of 2193 ---
If you have a medium or large organization, use Advisor for Teams to help you roll out Microsoft
Teams to help you plan the rollout of these workloads across your organization. The Advisor uses
Teams itself to create planning tasks and assign them to owners, share documents, and enable
discussions amongst your deployment team.
See these additional resources to help you get started:
ﾉ Expand table
Section Description
Small This article guides smaller businesses through setting up Teams. Small business might want
business all the core features of Teams (such as chat, teams, channels, meetings, and phone support),
setup but don't need to plan for multiple office locations, rolling out Teams to large numbers of
users, and so on.
Enterprise This article guides larger business through setting up Teams in situations where network
setup planning, lifecycle management, and wide-scale adoption, are critical factors to successful
deployment. This article also helps you understand the requirements for audio and video
conferencing, and configuring Phone System and PSTN connectivity.
Deploy This article provides information about the Teams client in your organization.
Team client
Teams This article provides training materials for end-users who use the Teams clients, and also for
training organization admins who need to manage Teams across your organization.
Upgrade or migrate from Skype for Business Server
If you're coming to Teams from Skype for Business Server, or if you need a hybrid configuration,
you still want to follow the recommended path above for a Teams deployment, but first you need
to do some extra planning. Start by reviewing the guidance in the table below that applies to
your organization's profile.
ﾉ Expand table
Your organization's profile Guidance
My organization is running Skype for Business For a full-scale Teams rollout, first you need to configure
Server, and I want to roll out Teams. hybrid connectivity between your on-premises
environment and Microsoft 365. Start by reading Plan
hybrid connectivity between Skype for Business Server
and Microsoft 365 or Office 365.
You should also review Upgrade to Teams.

--- Page 106 of 2193 ---
Your organization's profile Guidance
I don't have Skype for Business Server, but I do Roll out Teams following the suggestions in this article.
have an on-premises Public Switched Telephone
Network (PSTN) solution. I want to roll out Then read Plan Direct Routing to learn about using
Teams, but I want to keep my on-premises PSTN Phone System Direct Routing to hook up your on-
solution. premises PSTN solution with Teams.
Last updated on 02/26/2026

--- Page 107 of 2193 ---
What Microsoft business subscriptions do
I have?
Check out all of our small business content on Small business help & learning .
Not sure what Microsoft business subscriptions your organization has? If you're an admin, you
can see a list of your subscriptions in the Microsoft 365 admin center.
Not an admin? See What Microsoft 365 for business product or license do I have?
Before you begin
You must be a global or billing admin to view the subscriptions for your organization. For more
information, see About admin roles in the Microsoft 365 admin center.
Find out what subscriptions you have
1. Go to the Microsoft 365 admin center .
If you're using the Simplified view, select Subscriptions.
If you're using the Dashboard view, go to the Billing > Your products page.
2. The Your products page displays a list of all your subscriptions. Each line includes
information about the product name, the number of assigned licenses, the total number of
licenses, and the subscription status.
3. If you're using the Dashboard view and you have multiple billing accounts, select Change
billing account to select a different billing account to see the subscriptions associated with
it.
4. If you're using the Dashboard view, you can change the columns that appear in the list on
the Your products page. Select the List options icon next to the search box, change the
column selections, then select Save.
5. To see more details for a single subscription, select that subscription.
Related content
Business subscriptions and billing documentation
View your invoice in the Microsoft 365 admin center

--- Page 108 of 2193 ---
Last updated on 05/06/2026

--- Page 109 of 2193 ---
Add your company branding to the
Microsoft 365 sign-in page
For more small business content, see Small business help & learning .
You can now use the Microsoft Entra subscription that is included with your Microsoft 365
subscription to customize the sign-in page your users see.
Add company branding to your sign-in page and
Access Panel pages
If you have a paid subscription to Microsoft 365 for business, Microsoft Dynamics CRM Online,
Enterprise Mobility Suite, or other Microsoft services, you have a free subscription to Microsoft
Entra ID. Use Microsoft Entra ID to create and manage user and group accounts, and add
company branding to your pages. To activate this subscription and access the Microsoft Azure
Management Portal, complete a one-time registration process. Afterward, you can access
Microsoft Entra ID from your Microsoft service that uses it.
For instructions on how to register your Microsoft 365 subscription, see Register your free
Microsoft Entra subscription. For general management instructions, see Manage the directory for
your Microsoft 365 subscription in Azure.
The following figure shows which parts of the sign-in page you can modify in Azure.

--- Page 110 of 2193 ---
1. The large illustration and/or its background color.
2. The banner logo.
3. You can also add text to this area.
In addition to the sign-in page, you can customize the Access Panel page in Azure.
Next steps
If you're ready to add branding, explore the customization options in the Azure content set: Add
company branding to your Sign-in and Access Panel pages.
Related content
Customize the Microsoft 365 theme for your organization (article)
Difference between the setup wizard and the Setup page (article)
Set up mobile devices for Microsoft 365 for business users (video)
Last updated on 05/08/2026

--- Page 111 of 2193 ---
Customize the Microsoft 365 theme for
your organization
Check out all of our small business content on Small business help & learning .
As the admin of your organization, you can create multiple themes for the people in your
organization, and select which themes apply to different members of your organization. The
organization theme is what appears in the top navigation bar for people in your organization.
You can add or update a default theme that applies to everyone in your organization. You can
also create up to four additional group themes that can be assigned to multiple Microsoft 365
groups.
Add or update your organization's theme
1. In the admin center, go to the Settings > Org Settings page, and then choose the
Organization profile tab.
2. On the Organization profile tab, select Custom themes.
3. Choose Add theme and add the required info for the tabs.
All organization themes can be customized using the following tabs.
ﾉ Expand table
Tab What can you do?
General Modify a theme name and assign to up to five groups (if applicable).
Logos Add your organization logo, including alternate logo for dark theme.
Colors Customize a color scheme by specifying navigation bar, accent, text and icon colors.
General: Modify a theme
Your experience on the General tab depends on whether you're adding or modifying the
default theme or a group theme.
Update the default theme
The default theme is the first theme displayed.

--- Page 112 of 2193 ---
1. If you previously customized a theme for your organization, select Default Theme and
use one of your saved customizations, or, select Add theme.
2. On the General page, you can prevent users from overriding their theme and show the
user’s display name.
3. Select Save to save your changes.
） Important
The default theme is unique, it can't be renamed and applies to everyone within your
organization. To delete the default theme, you have to delete all other themes first.
Create a group theme
You can create up to four additional group themes.
1. On the General page, enter a name for your new theme.
2. Under Groups, you can select up to 5 Microsoft 365 Groups that can see your group
theme, instead of using the default theme. You can also prevent users from overriding
their theme and show the user's display name.
3. Select Save.

--- Page 113 of 2193 ---
Logos: Specify your theme logos
On the Logos page, you can add your logos, and specify the URL where users will navigate to
when they select the logo.
Default logo: Add a URL location that points to your logo. Make sure that the URL uses
HTTPS. Add an HTTPS image url that allows anonymous access and doesn't require
authentication. For default theme, you also have an option to upload a logo image that is
less than 10kb. Your default logo can be in the JPG, PNG, GIF, or SVG format. For SVG
images, they will be resized to fit 24 pixels vertically. JPG, PNG, GIF images will be scaled
to fit 200 x 48 pixels. Logo aspect ratio will always be preserved.
Alternate logo: Add a URL location that points to your logo. Your alternate logo should
be optimized for use in Microsoft 365 dark themes. Same requirements as the default
logo.
On-click link: Add a URL location that points to your logo. You can use your logo as a link
to any company resource, for example, your company's website. If you don’t select a URL
location for your logo, it’ll default to the Microsoft 365 home page.
Select Save to save your changes.

--- Page 114 of 2193 ---
You can remove your logos at any time. Just return to the Logos page and select Remove.
７ Note
The Microsoft 365 suite header is designed to accommodate a variety of screen sizes,
window sizes, and display settings. The responsive behavior of the suite header sometimes
results in the logo not showing to give space to other capabilities shown on the suite
header. To reduce the likelihood of this behavior a narrower image file is recommended.
Colors: Choose theme colors
On the Colors page, you can set the default colors and choose which logo should be used.
Navigation bar color: Select a color to use for the background of the navigation bar. The
navigation bar appears at the top on every page.
Text and icon color: Select a color to use for the text and icons on the top navigation bar.

--- Page 115 of 2193 ---
Accent color: Pick one that shows up well on a white or light background. The accent
color is used to color some links and buttons that show up on a white or light
background. For example, the accent color is used to color elements in a user's inbox and
on their microsoft365.com portal page.
Reset color: Select this link to reset colors to the default colors.
Frequently asked questions
My organization already has a theme for all employees. How
will this change?
The default theme will continue to be shown to all employees. Adding a new group theme will
only be made available to the Microsoft 365 groups associated with that theme.
Why don’t I see group themes in the Admin Center?
Only global admins can customize company themes. Global readers have read-only access.
） Important

--- Page 116 of 2193 ---
Microsoft recommends that you use roles with the fewest permissions. This helps improve
security for your organization. Global Administrator is a highly privileged role that should
be limited to emergency scenarios when you can't use an existing role.
How many different themes can I set up for my organization?
Up to five themes can be created. A default theme and four group themes.
Can I use security groups or distribution groups instead of
Microsoft 365 Groups?
No, new group themes must be mapped to one or more Microsoft 365 groups and not security
groups or distribution groups.
Can I manually assign a theme independent of Microsoft 365
Groups?
No, new group themes must be mapped to one or more Microsoft 365 groups. Users who are
members of the Microsoft 365 group will get the theme applied to their group. You can create
and add new members to a Microsoft 365 Group by going to the Settings > Groups in the
admin center.
What happens if a user is assigned to multiple group themes?
Users who are assigned to multiple group themes will be shown the default theme.
Why can’t I delete the default theme?
The default theme can only be deleted once all group themes are deleted. Make sure you
delete all group themes before you try to delete the default theme.
Why am I receiving an error message every time I upload a
logo URL?
Make sure the logo you’re using is specified as a publicly addressable URL. Follow these steps
for uploading logos to Azure Blob Storage or the Office 365 Content Delivery Network with
SharePoint Online.

--- Page 117 of 2193 ---
Why am I receiving the message “Doesn’t meet minimum
color contrast ratio of 4.5:1”?
The recommended contrast ratio between text, icon or button color and background color is
4.5:1. You can override this recommendation and still save your theme as this is not a
requirement.
If I define a theme, which places in Microsoft 365 will this be
used?
Any theme appears in the top navigation bar for everyone in the organization as part of the
Microsoft 365 suite header.
Related content
Add custom tiles to the My apps page and app launcher (article) Overview of Microsoft 365
Groups for administrators (article)
Last updated on 02/02/2026

--- Page 118 of 2193 ---
Synchronize domain users to Microsoft 365
1. Prepare for Directory Synchronization
Before you synchronize your users and computers from the local Active Directory Domain, review
Prepare for directory synchronization to Microsoft 365. In particular:
Make sure that no duplicates exist in your directory for the following attributes: mail,
proxyAddresses, and userPrincipalName. These values must be unique and any duplicates
must be removed.
We recommend that you configure the userPrincipalName (UPN) attribute for each local
user account to match the primary email address that corresponds to the licensed Microsoft
365 user. For example: mary.shelley@contoso.com rather than mary@contoso.local.
If the Active Directory domain ends in a non-routable suffix like .local or .lan, instead of an
internet routable suffix such as .com or .org, adjust the UPN suffix of the local user accounts
first as described in Prepare a non-routable domain for directory synchronization.
The Run IdFix in the following steps makes sure that your on-premises Active Directory is ready
for directory synchronization.
2. Install and configure Microsoft Entra Connect
To synchronize your users, groups, and contacts from the local Active Directory into Microsoft
Entra ID, install Microsoft Entra Connect and set up directory synchronization.
1. In the admin center , select Setup in the left nav.
2. Under Sign-in and security, select Add or sync users to Microsoft Entra ID.
3. On the Add or sync users to your Microsoft account page, choose Get started.
4. In the first step run IdFix tool to prepare for Directory sync.
5. Follow the wizard steps to download Microsoft Entra Connect and use it to synchronize your
domain-controlled users to Microsoft 365.
See Set up directory synchronization for Microsoft 365 to learn more.

--- Page 119 of 2193 ---
As you configure your options for Microsoft Entra Connect, we recommend that you enable
Password Synchronization, Seamless Single Sign-On, and the password writeback feature,
which is also supported in Microsoft 365 for business.
７ Note
There are some additional steps for password writeback beyond the check box in Microsoft
Entra Connect. For more information, see How-to: configure password writeback.
If you also want to manage domain-joined Windows 10 devices, see Enable domain-joined
Windows 10 devices to be managed by Microsoft 365 Business Premium to set up a Microsoft
Entra hybrid join.
Last updated on 04/23/2026

--- Page 120 of 2193 ---
How SSO to on-premises resources works
on Microsoft Entra joined devices
Summarize this article for me
Microsoft Entra joined devices give users a single sign-on (SSO) experience to your tenant's
cloud apps. If your environment has on-premises Active Directory Domain Services (AD DS),
users can also SSO to resources and applications that rely on on-premises Active Directory
Domain Services.
This article explains how this works.
Prerequisites
An Microsoft Entra joined device.
On-premises SSO requires line-of-sight communication with your on-premises AD DS
domain controllers. If Microsoft Entra joined devices aren't connected to your
organization's network, a VPN or other network infrastructure is required.
Microsoft Entra Connect or Microsoft Entra Cloud Sync: To synchronize default user
attributes like SAM Account Name, Domain Name, and UPN. For more information, see
the article Attributes synchronized by Microsoft Entra Connect.
How it works
With a Microsoft Entra joined device, your users already have an SSO experience to the cloud
apps in your environment. If your environment has Microsoft Entra ID and on-premises AD DS,
you might want to expand the scope of your SSO experience to your on-premises Line Of
Business (LOB) apps, file shares, and printers.
Microsoft Entra joined devices have no knowledge about your on-premises AD DS
environment because they aren't joined to it. However, you can provide additional information
about your on-premises AD to these devices with Microsoft Entra Connect.
Microsoft Entra Connect or Microsoft Entra Cloud Sync synchronize your on-premises identity
information to the cloud. As part of the synchronization process, on-premises user and domain
information is synchronized to Microsoft Entra ID. When a user signs in to a Microsoft Entra
joined device in a hybrid environment:
1. Microsoft Entra ID sends the details of the user's on-premises domain back to the device,
along with the Primary Refresh Token

--- Page 121 of 2193 ---
2. The local security authority (LSA) service enables Kerberos and NTLM authentication on
the device.
７ Note
Additional configuration is required when passwordless authentication to Microsoft Entra
joined devices is used.
For FIDO2 security key based passwordless authentication and Windows Hello for
Business Hybrid Cloud Trust, see Enable passwordless security key sign-in to on-premises
resources with Microsoft Entra ID.
For Windows Hello for Business Cloud Kerberos Trust, see Configure and provision
Windows Hello for Business - cloud Kerberos trust.
For Windows Hello for Business Hybrid Key Trust, see Configure Microsoft Entra joined
devices for On-premises Single-Sign On using Windows Hello for Business.
For Windows Hello for Business Hybrid Certificate Trust, see Using Certificates for AADJ
On-premises Single-sign On.
During an access attempt to an on-premises resource requesting Kerberos or NTLM, the
device:
1. Sends the on-premises domain information and user credentials to the located DC to get
the user authenticated.
2. Receives a Kerberos Ticket-Granting Ticket (TGT) or NTLM token based on the protocol
the on-premises resource or application supports. If the attempt to get the Kerberos TGT
or NTLM token for the domain fails, Credential Manager entries are tried, or the user
might receive an authentication pop-up requesting credentials for the target resource.
This failure can be related to a delay caused by a DCLocator timeout.
All apps that are configured for Windows-Integrated authentication seamlessly get SSO when
a user tries to access them.
What you get
With SSO, on a Microsoft Entra joined device you can:
Access a UNC path on an AD member server
Access an AD DS member web server configured for Windows-integrated security

--- Page 122 of 2193 ---
If you want to manage your on-premises AD from a Windows device, install the Remote Server
Administration Tools .
You can use:
The Active Directory Users and Computers (ADUC) snap-in to administer all AD objects.
However, you have to specify the domain that you want to connect to manually.
The DHCP snap-in to administer an AD-joined DHCP server. However, you might need to
specify the DHCP server name or address.
What you should know
You might have to adjust your domain-based filtering in Microsoft Entra Connect to
ensure that the data about the required domains is synchronized if you have multiple
domains.
Apps and resources that depend on Active Directory machine authentication don't work
because Microsoft Entra joined devices don't have a computer object in AD DS.
You can't share files with other users on a Microsoft Entra joined device.
Applications running on your Microsoft Entra joined device might authenticate users.
They must use the implicit UPN or the NT4 type syntax with the domain FQDN name as
the domain part, for example: user@contoso.corp.com or contoso.corp.com\user.
If applications use the NETBIOS or legacy name like contoso\user, the errors the
application gets would be either, NT error STATUS_BAD_VALIDATION_CLASS -
0xc00000a7, or Windows error ERROR_BAD_VALIDATION_CLASS - 1348 "The validation
information class requested was invalid." This error happens even if you can resolve
the legacy domain name.
Next steps
For more information, see What is device management in Microsoft Entra ID?
Last updated on 06/27/2025

--- Page 123 of 2193 ---
Overview of the Microsoft 365 admin
center
Check out all of our small business content on Small business help & learning .
The Microsoft 365 admin center gives users a central location to take care of common admin
tasks, such as:
Manage users: Add users and assign licenses at the same time, Delete or restore users, or
Reset a user's password.
Get help with billing: Billing
See activity reports: Activity Reports
Create a Microsoft 365 group
Manage a Microsoft 365 group
Admin center features and settings
Here are the features and settings you'll find in the left-hand navigation of the admin center.
Learn more about admin tasks in admin help.
ﾉ Expand table
Menu What it's for
Home This is the landing page in the admin center. You'll see where to manage users, billing,
service health, and reports.
Copilot Manage features related to Copilot. View insights about how people are using and
learning about Copilot, assign licenses, find training, change settings, and more.
Users Create and manage users in your organization, like employees or students. You can also set
their permission level or reset their passwords.
Teams and Create and manage groups in your organization, such as a Microsoft 365 group, Microsoft
groups 365 Teams, distribution group, security group, or shared mailbox. Learn how to create and
manage groups.
Roles Assign Microsoft Entra (Microsoft Entra ID) built-in roles to users who need access to other
admin centers and resources in Microsoft Entra ID, such as users, groups, and apps that
use Microsoft Graph API.
Resources Create and manage resources, like a SharePoint site collection. Learn how to create site

--- Page 124 of 2193 ---
Menu What it's for
collections.
Billing View, purchase, or cancel subscriptions for your organization. View past billing statements
or view the number of assigned licenses to individual users. Learn how to manage billing.
Support View existing service requests or create new ones. Learn more in Contact support for
business products - Admin Help.
Settings Manage global settings for apps like email, sites, and Microsoft 365. Change your
password policy and expiration date. Add and update domain names like contoso.com.
Change your organization profile and release preferences. And choose whether partners
can access your admin center.
Setup Manage existing domains, turn on and manage multi-factor authentication, manage admin
access, migrate user mailboxes to Microsoft 365, manage feature updates, and help users
install their apps in Microsoft 365.
Reports See at a glance how your organization is using Microsoft 365 with detailed reports on
email use, Microsoft 365 activations, and more. Learn how to use the new activity reports.
Health View health at a glance. You can also check out more details and the health history. See
How to check service health and How to check Windows release health for more
information.
Use Message center to keep track of upcoming changes to features and services. We post
announcements there with information that helps you plan for change and understand
how it may affect users. Get more details in Message center.
Admin Open separate admin centers for Exchange, Teams, SharePoint, Viva Engage, and Microsoft
centers Entra. Each admin center includes all available settings for that service.
For example, in the Exchange admin center, set up and manage email, calendars,
distribution groups, and more. In the SharePoint admin center, create and manage site
collections, site settings, and OneDrive for Business. In the Teams admin center, set up
messaging notifications, dial-in conferencing, and online presence.
Learn more about the Exchange admin center and SharePoint Admin Center.
Note: The admin centers available to you depend on your plan and region.
Two dashboard views
The Microsoft 365 admin center has two views: simplified view helps smaller organizations
manage their most common tasks. Dashboard view includes more complex settings and tasks.
You can switch between them from a button at the top of the admin center. Most users will see
the Dashboard view.
Check out Microsoft 365 small business help on YouTube.

--- Page 125 of 2193 ---
The admin center in simplified view
The admin center in dashboard view
Watch: The admin center in simplified view
Check out this video and others on our YouTube channel .
https://learn-video.azurefd.net/vod/player?id=8259f3d5-ecdb-452f-b055-
76f6a6b969aa&locale=en-us&embedUrl=%2Fmicrosoft-365%2Fadmin%2Fadmin-
overview%2Fadmin-center-overview
With the Microsoft 365 admin center , you can reset passwords, view your invoice, add or
remove users, and much more all in one place.
Sign in to Microsoft365.com with your work account, and select the app launcher.
If you have permission to access the admin center, you'll see Admin in the list. Select it.
At the top of the admin center, review the top actions for you. You may see different actions
depending on what you've already set up, such as creating new accounts, using Teams, setting
up email, and installing Office apps.
Under Your organization on the Users tab is a list of people who can access apps and services,
add new users, reset passwords, or use the three dots (more actions) menu. Select a person to
view or edit their information and settings.
On the Teams tab, create a new team or manage existing teams. You can manage the members
of a team or select the three dots (more actions) to change other Teams settings.
On the Products tab, add more products, add licenses, or use the three dots (more actions)
menu to modify licenses or payment method.
On the Upcoming changes tab, view relevant announcements about new and updated features
to Microsoft 365 apps.
On the Learn tab, browse videos and articles about the admin center and other Microsoft 365
features. To explore more advanced features of the admin center, open the navigation menu
and expand the headings to see more. Select Show all to see everything in the navigation
menu or use the search bar to quickly find what you're looking for.
If you need assistance, select Help & support (the headphones icon). Search for topic you want
help with and view the recommended solution or select the headset to contact support, and
then enter your question and contact information.

--- Page 126 of 2193 ---
Watch: The admin center in dashboard view
https://learn-video.azurefd.net/vod/player?id=1fae0a7d-cee3-454e-b6d7-
1376ee858314&locale=en-us&embedUrl=%2Fmicrosoft-365%2Fadmin%2Fadmin-
overview%2Fadmin-center-overview
The Microsoft 365 admin center is where you manage your business in the cloud. You can
complete such tasks as adding and removing users, changing licenses, and resetting
passwords.
Specialist workspaces, like Security, allow for more granular control. For more information
about how the admin centers work together, see What about the specific types of IT roles and
other workspaces like Security, or Exchange? in this article.
To get to the Microsoft 365 admin center, go to admin.microsoft.microsoft or, if you're
already signed in, select the app launcher, and choose Admin.
On the home page, you can create cards for tasks that you perform frequently. To add a new
card, select Add card, then select the plus sign next to the card you want to add. When you are
finished, close the window. You can rearrange the cards by selecting and then dragging them
to where you want. To remove a card, select the three dots (more actions), and then choose
Remove.
To view more admin tasks, expand the navigation menu. You'll find advanced configuration
settings in the additional admin centers at the bottom.
One common task that you might perform in the admin center is adding a user. To do this,
select Users, Active users, and then select Add a user. Enter the user's name and other
information, and then select Next. Follow the prompts to finish adding the user. When you are
done, select Finish adding, and then select Close.
You can sort your active users by columns. To add more columns, select Choose columns,
select the columns you want to add, and then select Save.
Select a user to see more options, such as managing their product licenses.
To enable more features that come with your subscription, select Setup. Here you can turn on
sign-in security, mobile app protection, DLP, and other features included with your
subscription.
If you need support at any time, choose Need help. Enter your question, then check out the
links that appear. If you don't get your answer here, choose Contact support to open a service
request.

--- Page 127 of 2193 ---
For more information on managing billing, passwords, users, and admins, see the other lessons
in this course.
Who is an admin?
By default, the person who signs up for and buys a Microsoft 365 for business subscription
gets admin permissions. That person can assign admin permissions to other people to help
them manage Microsoft 365 for their organization.
If you get the message "You don't have permission to access this page or perform this action,"
you aren't an admin.
Who has admin permissions in my business?
When looking for your admin to reset your password, delete an account, or do other tasks,
here's who you should contact:
Universities and schools: Contact your technical support team. Usually you can find a link
on your university site. At smaller schools, there may be just a few individuals who have
admin permissions.
Large businesses: Contact your internal help desk / technical support.
Small businesses: Contact the business owner / co-owner. Often they give admin
permissions to their IT consultant who does all the computer maintenance work for their
business.
If you have no idea who to contact at your work or school for help, try asking the person who
gave you your user account and password.
７ Note
Targeted release admins have first access to new features. New features later roll out to all
admins. This means that you might not see the admin center, or it might look different
than what is described in help articles. To be among the first to see new features, see
Participate in the admin center, below.
Turn on Targeted release
1. Sign in at admin.cloud.microsoft , go to the navigation pane and select Settings > Org
settings > Organization profile tab .

--- Page 128 of 2193 ---
2. Select Release preferences.
3. Select either Standard release for everyone, Targeted release for everyone or Targeted
release for selected users. If you choose Targeted release for selected users, make sure
that you add your admin account (and any other admins in your org who want to
participate) to the list of selected users.
Admin center feedback
While in the admin center, you can give Microsoft feedback about your experience by selecting
Give feedback right next to the Need help? button at the bottom of every page. Tell us what
you like and what we could do better. In addition, you may get pop-up surveys from time-to-
time asking about your overall impressions or a particular experience that's newly released. You
can also give feedback at the end of this article by selecting Was this information helpful?
Frequently asked questions
Don't see your questions answered here? Go to the Feedback section at the bottom of this
page and ask your question.
Which Microsoft 365 plans are available to trial or buy?
Microsoft 365 is a complete, intelligent solution that includes Microsoft 365, Windows 11, and
Enterprise Mobility + Security that empowers everyone to be creative and work together,
securely. The following Microsoft 365 subscriptions are available in the admin center for you to
try or buy now:
Microsoft 365 for business
Microsoft 365 Enterprise E3
Microsoft 365 Enterprise E5
７ Note
Trials available from the admin center may vary by organization type or region.
For more information, see Try or buy a Microsoft 365 for business subscription.
I found a bug or I want to request a feature enhancement.
How do I let Microsoft know?

--- Page 129 of 2193 ---
We love to hear from you! Reporting bugs and sharing feedback helps us make the Microsoft
365 admin center better. To give feedback, select the Feedback button on the bottom of the
page and use the form to send us your thoughts. Select the checkbox and confirm your email
address if you want someone from the Microsoft 365 admin center team to follow up on your
comments. We can't promise to follow up on every piece of feedback, but we're going to try!
What about the specific types of IT roles and other
workspaces like Security, or Exchange?
The Microsoft 365 admin center is the common entry point for all teams and roles managing
Microsoft 365. The experience, information, and controls are tailored and customizable for
each admin and role. Additionally, specialist workspaces allow for deep, granular control. These
specialist workspaces include SharePoint, Teams, Exchange, Security, Compliance, and
Microsoft Entra ID. You can find the specialist workspaces from the navigation pane in the
Microsoft 365 admin center .
What language options are available the Admin Center?
The Microsoft 365 admin center is fully localized in 40 languages.
ﾉ Expand table
Language Locale
Arabic ar
Bulgarian bg
Catalan ca
Czech cs
Danish da
German de
Greek el
Spanish es
English en
Estonian et
Basque eu

--- Page 130 of 2193 ---
Language Locale
Finnish fi
French fr
Galician gl
Hebrew he
Croatian hr
Hungarian hu
Indonesian id
Italian it
Japanese ja
Korean ko
Lithuanian lt
Latvian lv
Dutch nl
Norwegian no
Polish pl
Portuguese (Brazil) pt
Portuguese (Portugal) pt-pt
Romanian ro
Russian ru
Slovak sk
Slovenian sl
Serbian (Cyrillic) sr-cyrl
Serbian Latin sr
Swedish sv
Thai th
Turkish tr

--- Page 131 of 2193 ---
Language Locale
Ukrainian uk
Vietnamese vi
Chinese Simplified zh-hans
Chinese Traditional zh-hant
Related content
What is a Microsoft 365 admin? (video)
Manage teams in the Microsoft Teams admin center
Assign admin roles (video)
Customize the Microsoft 365 theme for your organization (article)
Last updated on 02/02/2026

--- Page 132 of 2193 ---
Microsoft 365 admin center accessibility
overview
Article • 06/19/2024
This article applies to the Microsoft 365 admin center.
Microsoft is committed to ensuring our products and services are designed for everyone
including over one billion people with disabilities. For more information, visit
Accessibility Technology & Tools | Microsoft Accessibility .
We prioritize inclusive design and accessibility in products and services. Microsoft
publishes Accessibility Conformance Reports (ACRs) describing how our products and
services support the criteria of the European accessibility standard, EN 301 549; Section
508 of the U.S. Rehabilitation Act; and the Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG).
A copy of the accessibility conformance reports for M365 admin center - Web are
available at Microsoft Accessibility Conformance Reports .
Conformance status
The Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) defines requirements for designers
and developers to improve accessibility for people with disabilities. It defines three
levels of conformance: Level A, Level AA, and Level AAA. The Microsoft 365 admin
center is partially conformant with WCAG 2.1 level AA. Partially conformant means that
some parts of the content don't fully conform to the accessibility standard.
Compatibility with browsers and assistive
technology
The Microsoft 365 admin center is designed to be compatible with the latest versions of
NVDA, Microsoft Edge, and Google Chrome. A Microsoft 365 Admin app is available for
iOS and Android, and users can use Voiceover and Talkback screen readers on those
devices.
Accessibility features in the Microsoft 365
admin center
The Microsoft 365 admin center provides the following features to support accessibility
in the web site:

--- Page 133 of 2193 ---
Contrast modes: The admin center provides light and dark modes that can be
selected on most pages in the admin center, including the admin center Home
page. By default, Light mode is selected. To switch to Dark mode, select the Dark
mode link in the upper-right corner of the page.
Magnification: A minimum of 400% browser magnification is supported.
Keyboard shortcuts: The admin center provides the following keyboard shortcuts.
Universal shortcuts:
Search – Alt+S
See all available shortcuts – Shift+?
On the Active users page:
Add user – Shift+A+U
Reset password – Shift+R+P
On the Contacts page:
Add contact – Shift+A+C
On the Active teams & groups page:
Add group – Shift+A+G
Support and feedback
Microsoft provides an enterprise Disability Answer Desk as a support resource for
organizations that have questions about the accessibility of Microsoft products and
product conformance with accessibility standards. The support team can help resolve
issues relating to assistive technology and functionality of products for users with
disabilities, and find conformance documentation. For accessibility help, visit our
Accessibility site .
We welcome your feedback on the accessibility of the Microsoft 365 admin center. Use
the Give feedback button inside the admin center to let us know about any accessibility
barriers you encounter.
Feedback
Was this page helpful?  Yes  No
Provide product feedback

--- Page 134 of 2193 ---
About administrator roles in the Microsoft
365 admin center
Check out Microsoft 365 small business help on YouTube. These resources are especially
helpful for small business admins who are new to Microsoft 365.
To perform tasks like adding users, assigning licenses, or configuring services, you need an
administrator role in Microsoft 365 for business. Your Microsoft 365 or Office 365 subscription
includes a set of administrator roles that you can assign in the Microsoft 365 admin center .
Each administrator role corresponds to common business functions and enables people in your
organization to complete specific tasks in the admin centers. This article provides an overview of
administrator roles, security guidelines to keep in mind, and links to related content.
Watch: What is an admin?
Check out this video and others on our YouTube channel .
https://learn-video.azurefd.net/vod/player?id=09f25c9c-6c0b-4e0d-85c6-
acd0964d39d9&locale=en-us&embedUrl=%2Fmicrosoft-365%2Fadmin%2Fadd-
users%2Fabout-admin-roles
1. Go to the Microsoft 365 admin center and sign in. If you can access the Microsoft 365
admin center, you're an administrator, and you can proceed to the next step.
2. In the left navigation pane, select Users > Active users. (Or go directly to the Active users
page .)
3. Select the user account for the person who you want to make an administrator. The user's
details appear in the right dialog box.
Before you begin
The Microsoft 365 admin center lets you manage Microsoft Entra roles and Microsoft Intune
roles. However, these roles are a subset of the roles available in the Microsoft Entra admin center
and the Microsoft Intune admin center.

--- Page 135 of 2193 ---
For the full list of detailed Microsoft Entra role descriptions you can manage in the
Microsoft 365 admin center, see Administrator role permissions in Microsoft Entra built-in
roles.
For the full list of detailed Microsoft Intune role descriptions you can manage in the
Microsoft 365 admin center, see Role-based access control (RBAC) with Microsoft Intune.
For more information on assigning roles in the Microsoft 365 admin center, see Assign admin
roles.
） Important
Microsoft recommends that you use roles with the fewest permissions, and that you limit the
number of users who have administrative permissions. See Least privileged roles by task in
Microsoft Entra ID.
Security guidelines for assigning roles
Because administrators have access to sensitive data and files, follow these guidelines to keep
your organization's data more secure.
ﾉ Expand table
Recommendation Why it's important
Have as few global Global Administrators have almost unlimited access to your organization's
administrators as settings and most of its data. Limit the number of Global Administrators as much
possible as possible. A Global Administrator could inadvertently lock their account and
require a password reset. Either another Global Administrator or a Privileged
Authentication Administrator can reset a Global Administrator's password.
Therefore, have at least a Privileged Authentication administrator in case a Global
Administrator is locked out of their account.
Assign the least Assigning the least permissive role means giving administrators only the access
permissive role they need to get the job done. For example, if you want someone to reset user
passwords, don't assign the unlimited global administrator role. Instead, assign a
limited administrator role, like Password Administrator or Helpdesk Administrator.
See Least privileged roles by task in Microsoft Entra ID.
Require multifactor Require MFA for all of your users, especially administrators. MFA makes users use
authentication (MFA) a second method of identification to verify their identity. Administrators can
for administrators access user data, such as their name, email address, location, and so on. If you
require MFA, even if the administrator's password gets compromised, the
password alone isn't sufficient to sign in without another method of
identification.

--- Page 136 of 2193 ---
Recommendation Why it's important
When you turn on MFA, the next time the user signs in, they need to provide an
alternate email address and phone number for account recovery.
Set up multifactor authentication
If you get a message in the Microsoft 365 admin center that indicates you don't have permission
to edit a setting or page, it's because you're assigned to a role that doesn't have that permission.
In this case, take one or more of the following actions:
Talk to another administrator to assign you the correct role.
Learn more about how administrator roles are assigned. See Assign administrator roles.
Contact support for Microsoft 365 for business.
Commonly used Microsoft 365 admin center roles
To view administrator roles, follow these steps:
1. In the Microsoft 365 admin center , go to Role assignments .
2. Select any role to open its detail pane.
3. Select the Permissions tab to view the detailed list of what administrators assigned that role
have permissions to do.
4. Select the Assigned or Assigned admins tab to add users to roles.
To view the full list of roles, go to the bottom of the list and select Show all by Category.
For detailed information, including the cmdlets associated with a role, see Microsoft Entra
built-in roles.
Administrator roles and who should be assigned
The following table lists administrator roles and information about who should be assigned these
roles. To see the full list of roles, visit Microsoft Entra built-in roles.
ﾉ Expand table
Administrator role Who should be assigned this role?
AI Administrator This role provides AI- and agent-scoped administration, but doesn't grant broad
tenant-wide Microsoft 365 workload administration.

--- Page 137 of 2193 ---
Administrator role Who should be assigned this role?
Assign the AI Administrator role to users who need to do the following tasks:
Manage all aspects of Microsoft 365 Copilot
Manage AI-related enterprise services, extensibility, and Copilot agents on
the Integrated Apps page in the Microsoft 365 admin center
Manage agent instances and agent identities using available administrator
experiences, such as upload, publish, install, activate, and block or unblock
agents where supported
Grant tenant-wide consent for apps and agents requesting permissions
except Microsoft Graph application permissions. Apps or agents requiring
Microsoft Graph application permissions continue to require Global
Administrator approval.
View usage reports, adoption insights, and organizational insight
View basic subscription properties
View agents flagged as risky in Identity Protection for agents
Allow users to install an app or install an app for users in the organization if
the app doesn't require permission
Read and configure Microsoft Azure and Microsoft 365 service health
dashboards
Create and manage support requests in the Microsoft Azure portal and the
Microsoft 365 admin center
The AI Administrator doesn't manage human user licensing or user sign-in sessions.
Some high-privilege permission or consent scenarios (for example, certain
Microsoft Graph application permissions) might still require a Global Administrator
or Privileged Role Administrator.
AI Reader This role is intended for visibility, monitoring, and reporting, but not administration.
Assign the AI Reader role to users who need to view the features and settings in the
admin centers that the AI Administrator can view.
The AI Reader can't edit any settings.
Assign the AI Reader role to users who need to do the following tasks:
Read all aspects of Microsoft 365 Copilot
Read all properties of agent identities, agent identity blueprint principals, and
agent identity blueprints
Read and configure Microsoft Azure and Microsoft 365 service health
dashboards
View usage reports, adoption insights, and organizational insight
The AI Reader role is a read-only role and can't create, publish, approve, activate,
deactivate, or modify agents. The AI Reader can't manage agent availability,
permissions, policies, licenses, consent, or support requests.
Application Assign the Application Administrator role to users who need to create and manage
Administrator all aspects of enterprise applications, application registrations, and application

--- Page 138 of 2193 ---
Administrator role Who should be assigned this role?
proxy settings.
Users assigned to this role aren't added as owners when creating new application
registrations or enterprise applications. This role also grants the ability to consent
for delegated permissions and application permissions, except for application
permissions for Azure AD Graph and Microsoft Graph.
Billing Administrator Assign the Billing Administrator role to users who make purchases, manage
subscriptions and service requests, and monitor service health. Billing
administrators can also:
Manage all aspects of billing
Create and manage support tickets in the Azure portal
Exchange Assign the Exchange Administrator role to users who need to view and manage
Administrator your user's email mailboxes, Microsoft 365 Groups, and Exchange Online. Exchange
Administrators can also:
Recover deleted items in a user's mailbox
Set up "Send As" and "Send on behalf" delegates
Fabric Administrator Assign the Fabric Administrator role to users who need to do the following tasks:
Manage all admin features for Microsoft Fabric and Power BI
Report on usage and performance
Review and manage auditing
Global Administrator This is a privileged role. Global Administrators can view Directory Activity logs and
elevate their access to manage all Microsoft Azure subscriptions and management
groups. Global Administrators can get full access to all Microsoft Azure resources
using their respective Microsoft Entra tenant.
The person who purchased a subscription for your organization and signed up for
Microsoft online services is a Global Administrator automatically. There can be
more than one Global Administrator in your organization.
Users with this role have access to all administrative features in Microsoft Entra ID,
and services that use Microsoft Entra identities like the Microsoft Defender portal,
the Microsoft Purview portal, Exchange Online, SharePoint Online, and Skype for
Business Online.
Global Administrators can:
Reset passwords for any user and all other administrators
Manage purchasing of your organization's subscriptions and products
Reset passwords for all users
Add and manage domains
Unblock another Global Administrator

--- Page 139 of 2193 ---
Administrator role Who should be assigned this role?
Additionally, only Global Administrators can view and manage subscriptions
purchased through a Partner.
A Global Administrator can't remove their own Global Administrator assignment.
This limitation is to prevent a situation where an organization has zero Global
Administrators.
Global Reader Assign the Global Reader role to users who need to perform the following tasks:
View agent overview and agents in the registry for their tenant, with details
around the metrics with all the richness of agent metadata details
View administrator features and settings in admin centers that the Global
Administrator can view.
The Global Reader can't edit any settings.
For subscriptions purchased through a partner, the Global Reader role isn't
available.
Groups Administrator Assign the Groups Administrator role to users who need to manage all groups
settings across admin centers, including the Microsoft 365 admin center and
Microsoft Entra admin center. Groups Administrators can:
Create, edit, delete, and restore Microsoft 365 Groups
Create and update group creation, expiration, and naming policies
Create, edit, delete, and restore Microsoft Entra security groups
Also see Manage who can create Microsoft 365 Groups.
Helpdesk Assign the Helpdesk Administrator role to users who need to do the following
Administrator tasks:
Reset passwords
Force users to sign out
Manage service requests
Monitor service health
The Helpdesk admin can only help users who aren't administrator users and users
who are assigned these roles: Directory reader, Guest inviter, Helpdesk admin,
Message Center reader, and Reports reader.
License Administrator Assign the License Administrator role to users who need to assign and remove
licenses from users and edit their usage location. License administrators can also:
Reprocess license assignments for group-based licensing
Assign product licenses to groups for group-based licensing
Message Center Assign the Message Center Privacy Reader role to users who need to read privacy
Privacy Reader and security messages and updates in the Microsoft 365 Message Center.
Message Center privacy readers might get email notifications related to data
privacy, depending on their preferences, and they can unsubscribe using Message
Center preferences.

--- Page 140 of 2193 ---
Administrator role Who should be assigned this role?
Only Global Administrators and Message Center Privacy Readers can read data
privacy messages.
This role has no permission to view, create, or manage service requests.
Message Center privacy readers can also:
Monitor all notifications in the Message Center, including data privacy
messages
View groups, domains, and subscriptions
Message Center Assign the Message Center Reader role to users who need to do the following
Reader tasks:
Monitor Message Center notifications
Get weekly email digests of Message Center posts and updates
Share Message Center posts
Have read-only access to Microsoft Entra services, such as users and groups
Microsoft Graph Data Assign the Microsoft Graph Data Connect Administrator role to users who need to
Connect do the following tasks:
Administrator Access the full set of administrative capabilities of Microsoft Graph Data
Connect
Manage Microsoft Graph Data Connect settings in a tenant
Enable or disable the Microsoft Graph Data Connect service
Configure dataset workload selections in Microsoft Graph Data Connect
Configure cross-tenant data movement settings in Microsoft Graph Data
Connect
View, approve, or deny application authorization requests for Microsoft
Graph Data Connect
View, create, update, or delete application registrations for Microsoft Graph
Data Connect
Migration Assign the Microsoft 365 Migration Administrator role to users who need to do the
Administrator following tasks:
Use Migration Manager in the Microsoft 365 admin center to manage
content migration to Microsoft 365, including Microsoft Teams, OneDrive,
and SharePoint sites, from various sources such as Google Drive, Dropbox,
and Box
Select migration sources, create migration inventories (such as Google Drive
user lists), schedule and execute migrations, and download reports
Create new SharePoint sites if the destination sites don't already exist, create
SharePoint lists under the SharePoint admin sites, and create and update
items in SharePoint lists
Manage migration project settings and migration lifecycle for tasks and
manage permission mappings from source to destination.

--- Page 141 of 2193 ---
Administrator role Who should be assigned this role?
With this role, you can only migrate from Google Drive, Box, Dropbox, and Egnyte.
This role doesn't allow you to migrate from file share sources from the SharePoint
admin center. Use the SharePoint admin to migrate from file share sources.
Office Apps Assign the Office Apps Administrator role to users who need to do the following
Administrator tasks:
Use the Cloud Policy service for Microsoft 365 to create and manage cloud-
based policies.
Create and manage service requests
Manage the What's New content that users see in their apps in Microsoft 365
Monitor service health
Manage Office Scripts settings
Organizational Assign the Organizational Messages Approver role to users who need to review,
Messages Approver approve, or reject new organizational messages for delivery in the Microsoft 365
admin center before they're sent to users through Microsoft product surfaces.
Organizational Assign the Organizational Messages Writer role to users who need to write, publish,
Messages Writer manage, and review the organizational messages for end-users through Microsoft
product surfaces.
Password Assign the Password Administrator role to a user who needs to reset passwords for
Administrator users.
People Administrator Assign the People Administrator role to users who need to do the following tasks:
Update profile photos for all users including administrators
Update people settings for all users (pronouns, name pronunciation, and
profile card settings)
Power Platform Assign the Power Platform Administrator role to users who need to do the
Administrator following tasks:
Manage all admin features for Power Apps, Power Automate, Power BI,
Microsoft Fabric, and Microsoft Purview Data Loss Prevention
Create and manage service requests
Monitor service health
Reports Reader Assign the Reports Reader role to users who need to do the following tasks:
View agent overview and agents in the registry for their tenant, with details
around the metrics with all the richness of agent metadata details
View usage data and the activity reports in the Microsoft 365 admin center
Get access to the Power BI adoption content pack
Get access to sign-in reports and activity in Microsoft Entra ID
View data returned by Microsoft Graph reporting API
Search Administrator Assign the Search Administrator role to users who need to create and manage
search result content and define query settings for improved search results within

--- Page 142 of 2193 ---
Administrator role Who should be assigned this role?
the organization. The Search admin manages the Microsoft search configuration
and can perform all the content-management tasks that a Search editor can.
Security Administrator Assign the Security Administrator role to users who manage security controls and
monitoring across Microsoft 365.
This privileged role provides access to security and compliance portals and read
visibility into agents in the Microsoft 365 admin center for investigation and risk
assessment, without allowing agent publishing or lifecycle management.
Security Reader Assign the Security Reader role to users who need access to security data and
monitoring insights across Microsoft 365.
This privileged role provides access to security and compliance portals, including
Microsoft Defender, Microsoft Entra (ID Protection, Privileged Identity
Management, sign-in reports, and audit logs), and Microsoft Purview.
In the Microsoft 365 admin center, this role provides read-only visibility into agents
and metadata for security review and compliance purposes, without allowing agent
publishing or lifecycle management.
Service Support Assign the Service Support Administrator role as another role to administrators or
Administrator users who need to do the following tasks in addition to their usual admin role:
Open and manage service requests
View and share Message Center posts
Monitor service health
SharePoint Assign the SharePoint Administrator role to users who need to access and manage
Administrator the SharePoint admin center. SharePoint Administrators can also:
Create and delete sites
Manage site collections and global SharePoint settings
SharePoint Advanced Assign the SharePoint Advanced Management Administrator role to users who
Management need to perform the following kinds of tasks:
Administrator Use the SharePoint Admin Agent
Manage all aspects of SharePoint Advanced Management
View names, paths, and URLs of files, folders, libraries, documents, and lists
within SharePoint sites, without accessing file or item content
Remove permissions from files, folders, libraries, documents, and lists within
SharePoint sites

--- Page 143 of 2193 ---
Administrator role Who should be assigned this role?
Teams Administrator Assign the Teams Administrator role to users who need to access and manage the
Teams admin center. A Teams Administrator can also:
Manage meetings
Manage conference bridges
Manage all org-wide settings, including federation, teams upgrade, and
teams client settings
User Administrator Assign the User Administrator role to users who need to do the following tasks:
Create, disable, or enable user accounts
Add users and groups
Assign licenses
Manage most users properties
Create and manage user views
Update password expiration policies
Manage service requests
Monitor service health
Update (FIDO) device keys
View a summary of agents across your tenant to gain visibility into overall
usage and adoption trends
User Experience Assign the User Experience Success Manager role to users who need to perform the
Success Manager following tasks:
Access Experience Insights, Adoption Score, and the Message Center in the
Microsoft 365 admin center.
View a summary of agents across your tenant to gain visibility into overall
usage and adoption trends
This role includes the permissions of the Usage Summary Reports Reader
role.
Viva Glint Tenant Assign the Viva Glint Tenant Administrator role to users who manage the Viva Glint
Administrator app. See Assign Viva Glint Tenant and Service Administrators.
Also see Check admin roles in your organization.
Permissions based on administrator roles and group
type in the Microsoft 365 administrator center
ﾉ Expand table

--- Page 144 of 2193 ---
Administrator Microsoft 365 Security Groups Distribution Mail Enabled
Groups Groups Security
Groups
Global Create, Read, Create, Read, Update, Create, Read, Create, Read,
Administrator Update, Delete Delete Update, Delete Update, Delete
Global Reader Read Read Read Read
User Administrator Create, Read, Create, Read, Update, Read Read
Update, Delete Delete
(Can't update
Exchange Online
properties)
Exchange Create, Read, Read, Update (only Create, Read, Create, Read,
Administrator Update, Delete groups they own), Delete Update, Delete Update, Delete
(only groups they own)
Teams Create, Read, Create, Read, Update, Read Read
Administrator Update, Delete Delete (only groups they
(Can't update own)
Exchange Online
properties)
SharePoint Create, Read, Create, Read, Update, Read Read
Administrator Update, Delete Delete -only groups they
(Can't update own
Exchange Online
properties)
Billing Read Read Read Read
Administrator
Service Support Read Read Read Read
Administrator
Groups Create, Read, Create, Read, Update, Read Read
Administrator Update, Delete Delete
(Can't update
Exchange Online
properties)
AI administrator Read Read Read Read
Delegated administration for Microsoft Partners
If you're working with a Microsoft partner, you can assign them administrator roles. They can
assign users in your company, or their company, administrator roles. Assign administrator roles to

--- Page 145 of 2193 ---
partners if they're setting up and managing your online organization for you.
A partner can assign these roles:
Admin Agent Privileges equivalent to a global administrator, except for managing
multifactor authentication through the Partner Center.
Helpdesk Agent Privileges equivalent to a helpdesk admin.
Before the partner can assign these roles to users, you must add the partner as a delegated
administrator to your account. The partner has to be an authorized partner. The partner sends
you an email to ask if you want to give them permission to act as a delegated admin. For
instructions, see Authorize or remove partner relationships.
Volume licensing roles
Volume licensing (VL) agreement administrators access their volume licenses in the Microsoft 365
admin center .
VL Administrators don't have permissions to any other admin center information or
functionality outside the VL section.
Global administrators don't assign any VL roles and don't need to assign any administrator
role to a VL Administrator for them to access the VL agreement.
Global administrators don't have access to VL information or functionality in the admin
center, unless a VL Administrator assigns them to a VL role.
For more information, see Manage volume licensing user roles or contact the Volume Licensing
Support team.
Related content
Get support for Microsoft 365 for business
Reset passwords in Microsoft 365 for business
Assign administrator roles
Check administrator roles in your organization
Manage user authentication methods for Microsoft Entra multifactor authentication
Microsoft Entra roles in the Microsoft 365 administrator center

--- Page 146 of 2193 ---
Activity reports in the Microsoft 365 admin center
Exchange Online administrator role
Last updated on 04/30/2026

--- Page 147 of 2193 ---
About the Microsoft 365 Admin mobile
app
Check out all of our small business content on Small business help & learning .
Check out Microsoft 365 small business video help on YouTube.
Are you an admin who’s usually on the go? Even if you aren’t, there might be times when you
need to manage Microsoft 365 from your phone or tablet. Check out the free Microsoft 365
Admin app , the perfect companion to the web-based Microsoft 365 admin center.
Download the app from the Apple App Store .
Download the app from the Google Play Store .
You can also get a link from the Microsoft 365 admin center .

--- Page 148 of 2193 ---
Before you begin
You must be an administrator in a Microsoft 365 organization to use the admin mobile app.
Watch: Install and use the admin mobile app
Check out this video and others on our YouTube channel .
https://learn-video.azurefd.net/vod/player?id=1dcd3486-a40f-4b7e-aa25-
ab371de00a6b&locale=en-us&embedUrl=%2Fmicrosoft-365%2Fadmin%2Fadmin-
overview%2Fadmin-mobile-app
Steps: Install and use the admin mobile app
1. To get the Microsoft 365 Admin mobile app, search for Microsoft 365 Admin in the app
store for your device and install it.
2. Sign in with your administrator email address, and view the dashboard to see service
health, monitor user licenses, and see messages and service requests. For more
information on administrator roles, see About administrator roles.
Admin mobile app capabilities
The admin app has a lot of capabilities that allows you to manage Microsoft 365 from your
mobile or tablet device when you can’t get to a computer. Here's a list of some of the tasks you
can do from the app:
Manage users and devices Add or edit a user, reset a user’s password, assign a role,
block user, delete user, manage alias, assign licenses, wipe device data and more.
Manage groups Add a group, add or remove users from groups.
License management and billing View a list of purchased and assigned licenses, assign
licenses to users, purchase or remove licenses and view and download invoices.
Support Create a new service request and keep track of all the updates related to the
service requests while you are on the go.
Message Center Stay on top of all the upcoming changes, planned maintenance, or other
important announcements related to Microsoft 365
Service Health Monitor the health of all the services by viewing the current status of the
service and details about service disruption and outages.
Notifications Stay on top of all the important information and updates related to
message center posts, service health and billing through push notifications. You can even
customize what you want to be notified of.

--- Page 149 of 2193 ---
If you're an admin and you're responsible for more than one Microsoft 365 organization, you
can sign in to multiple organizations and quickly switch between them. The app supports dark
theme and is available in over 40 languages.
Frequently asked questions
Below are answers to frequently asked questions.
Does the admin app support multi-tenant billing features?
The admin mobile app is missing a few multi-tenant features where the authorized admin can
see the products and licenses of the tenant in question along with the products and licenses of
associated tenants in a single view.
This feature isn't yet part of the Microsoft 365 Admin mobile app, but will be coming soon. For
more information, admins can go to the Microsoft 365 admin center .
What do I need to do to be able to use the app?
To use the app you need to have admin permissions and a valid subscription to one of the
following Microsoft 365 subscriptions:
Microsoft 365 Apps
Microsoft 365 Apps for Business
Microsoft 365 Business Premium
Microsoft 365 Business Standard
Microsoft 365 Business Basic
Microsoft 365 E3/E5
Office 365: E1, E3/E5
Exchange Online plan
OneDrive plan
Can I use the app with my Microsoft 365 Family subscription?
No, the app doesn’t work with Microsoft 365 Family or Microsoft 365 Personal subscriptions.
Will the app work if my organization has directory
synchronization enabled?

--- Page 150 of 2193 ---
Yes, but with reduced functionality. You'll be able to sign in and view service information, but
most of the user management functions will be read-only. You won't be able to add, edit, or
delete users. However, you'll be able to assign licenses to users in your organization and get
notifications.
What languages are supported by the app?
The app supports over 40 languages that the web-based Microsoft 365 admin center supports.
To change the language, from the left navigation menu in the admin center, go to Settings >
Language or select the Language icon in Quick Links section of the admin mobile app home
page.
How can I share the Service Incidents and Messages with the
rest of my organization?
If you select a specific service incident or a message, the share option will be in the top right
corner.
Can I use this app with multiple accounts or tenants?
Yes, you can set up multiple accounts or organizations.
I’m unable to sign in or my app is acting funny. What can I do
to troubleshoot or fix the issue?
You can try some common mobile app troubleshooting steps:
1. Close and reopen the app.
2. Uninstall and reinstall the app. Ensure that you are on the latest version of the app.
3. If you have Microsoft Authenticator or Company portal app installed on your device, try
reinstalling it or updating to the latest version.
4. If that doesn't work, you can email us at feedback365@microsoft.com to let us know.
How do I manage notifications in the app?
From the left navigation menu, go to Settings > Notifications. You can manage service health,
message center and billing notifications here.
What do I do if my question isn't answered?

--- Page 151 of 2193 ---
Email feedback365@microsoft.com to report an issue with the app. Or you can give feedback
at the bottom of this article.
Next steps
Once you've downloaded the admin mobile app, you can add users to get you started.
Related content
Microsoft 365 for business training videos
Last updated on 02/02/2026

--- Page 152 of 2193 ---
What's new in the Microsoft 365 admin
center
We're continuously adding new features to the Microsoft 365 admin center, fixing issues we
learn about, and making changes based on your feedback. Some features get rolled out at
different speeds to our customers. If you aren't seeing a feature yet, try adding yourself to
targeted release.
And if you'd like to know what's new with other Microsoft cloud services, check out the
following:
What's new in Microsoft Entra ID
What's new in the Exchange admin center
What's new in Microsoft Intune
What's new in the Microsoft Purview portal
What's new in Microsoft Defender XDR
What's new in the SharePoint admin center
What's new for Teams admins
Microsoft 365 updates
How to check Windows release health
） Important
Use roles with the fewest permissions. Lower permissioned accounts help improve security
for your organization. Global Administrator is a highly privileged role. Limit its use to
emergency scenarios when you cannot use an existing role. For more information,
see About admin roles in the Microsoft 365 admin center.
November 2025
The Engineering direct portal is now renamed to Enhanced Engagements.
Inside Engagements there are four new options:
Service requests is now Engineering escalations
Business Process Awareness (BPAs)
Customer Advisory Board (CAB)
Incident Analysis
(Preview) History tab is now renamed to Design change requests (DCR).

--- Page 153 of 2193 ---
June 2025
Copilot Search admin experience
The Microsoft 365 Admin center now includes the Copilot Search Admin experience, giving
you powerful tools to manage and optimize search across your organization. This release
introduces enhanced support for Acronyms and Bookmarks, enabling you to deliver more
relevant and contextual search results to users.
Key Highlights
Acronyms
Define and manage organization-specific acronyms to improve search clarity.
Upload acronyms in bulk via CSV or add them individually.
Acronyms are discoverable across Microsoft Search endpoints like SharePoint.
Bookmarks
Create quick access links to frequently used resources.
Boost visibility of important tools, sites, or documents in search results.
Customize bookmark meta data including title, URL, description, and audience
targeting.
These features help ensure that users find the right information faster, especially when
navigating internal terminology or frequently accessed content.
To learn more, see Microsoft 365 Copilot Search.
April 2025
Microsoft 365 Copilot network connectivity test
A new addition to the Microsoft 365 network connectivity test tool enables users to run
diagnostics specifically for Microsoft 365 Copilot. The tool helps users evaluate the network
performance between their device and Microsoft 365 endpoints, specifically for Microsoft 365
Copilot. It runs a series of tests from the user’s location and generates a detailed report that
can be shared with others or Microsoft support to help troubleshoot connectivity issues.
The test includes:
Latency measures the time it takes for data to travel between the device and Microsoft
365 services

--- Page 154 of 2193 ---
Throughput evaluates the data transfer rate
Service reachability checks whether required Microsoft 365 services are accessible
Admins and users can go to Microsoft 365 network connectivity test to run the test.
To learn more, see Microsoft 365 network connectivity test tool .
March 2025
Exchange Web Services usage report

The Microsoft 365 admin center now includes a new Exchange Web Services (EWS) usage
report that provides insights into the non-Microsoft (third-party) applications in your tenant
that use EWS. The report provides detailed information on the specific actions performed by
these applications and their call volumes over a selected period. The report enhances your
ability to understand EWS activity prior to EWS deprecation in Microsoft Exchange Online.
The report is available by default in the Microsoft 365 admin center under Reports > Usage >
Exchange > EWS usage.
To learn more, see Microsoft 365 Reports in the admin center – EWS usage.
February 2025
Provide admin-initiated feedback for Microsoft 365 Copilot
https://learn-video.azurefd.net/vod/player?id=c67f2b9c-8ba4-44b5-8713-
00063e92ba54&locale=en-us&embedUrl=%2Fmicrosoft-365%2Fadmin%2Fwhats-new-in-

--- Page 155 of 2193 ---
preview
You can provide feedback about Microsoft 365 Copilot on behalf of your users within the
Microsoft 365 admin center, supplementing the user-initiated feedback process. This helps
Microsoft receive comprehensive diagnostic data to aid in debugging and improving the
quality and relevance of Copilot's responses. Recent enhancements to this feature include:
Role expansion The feature now includes the AI Admin role in addition to Global Admin
role, ensuring that more administrators can access and manage Copilot diagnostics.
Selecting chat log prompt-response pairs You can review and select specific chat log
prompt-response pairs for feedback, providing more control over the data being shared.
Date range selection You can select a specific date range for a feedback submission, up
to the past 30 days, allowing you to focus on issues within a particular time-frame.
Product selection You can choose from a list of Copilot products when submitting
feedback, ensuring that the feedback is relevant to the specific product.
List of frequently occurring issues You can select from a predefined list of frequently
occurring issues or enter issue details in a text box, streamlining the feedback process.
As an admin, you play a pivotal role in setting the tone for how your organization adopts and
benefits from new technologies. Hence, with admin-initiated feedback, we're empowering
administrators to harness this capability for Copilot's continual improvement, all while ensuring
the security and ownership of your organization’s data.
These enhancements provide more control and flexibility, ensuring that feedback is accurate
and relevant. To learn more, see Submit admin-initiated Copilot feedback from the Microsoft
365 admin center.
January 2025
AI Administrator role in Microsoft 365 admin center
The AI administrator role is designed to manage all settings related to Copilot within the
Microsoft 365 admin center. You can manage Copilot settings by using the Copilot page in the
admin center, which serves as the central hub for all Copilot controls. To learn more about the
Copilot page, see Manage Microsoft 365 Copilot settings in the Microsoft 365 admin center.
With the AI administrator role, you can:
Manage AI-related services and extensibility This includes managing all aspects of
Microsoft 365 Copilot, AI-related enterprise services, and agents from the Integrated apps
page in the Microsoft 365 admin center.

--- Page 156 of 2193 ---
Oversee app installations and configurations Users with this role can install apps or
install apps for users in the organization and read and configure Azure and Microsoft 365
service health dashboards.
Access insights and support View usage reports, adoption insights, organizational
insights, and create and manage support tickets in Azure and the Microsoft 365 admin
center.
This new role is designed to empower your organization by providing specialized
administrative capabilities for managing AI-related enterprise services, starting with Microsoft
365 Copilot, and slowly extending to other AI-driven functionalities. For more information
about the AI administrator role and other roles in the admin center, see About admin roles in
the Microsoft 365 admin center.
７ Note
The AI Administrator role is currently limited. For full administrative capabilities, it's
recommended to use the Global Admin role until the AI Administrator role is fully
functional. We're continuously expanding support for more functionalities to enhance the
AI Administrator role.
May 2023
Sign up for Windows release health email notifications
You now have an option to sign up for email notifications about Windows known issues and
informational updates. Notifications include changes in issue status, new workarounds, and
issue resolutions. To subscribe to notifications:
1. Go to the Windows release health page .
2. Select Preferences > Email, then select Send me email notifications about Windows
release health.
3. Specify the following information:
Email address for the notifications
Each admin account can specify up to two email addresses under their email
preferences
Windows versions to be notified about
When a single known issue affects multiple versions of Windows, you'll receive
only one email notification, even if you've selected notifications for multiple
versions. Duplicate emails won't be sent.

--- Page 157 of 2193 ---
4. Select Save when you're finished specifying email addresses and Windows versions. It
might take up to 8 hours for these changes to take effect.
For more information, see How to check Windows release health.
April 2023
The Suggested training feature is part of the Experience Insights dashboard and gives you
deeper insights into the Microsoft 365 help and training articles being read by your signed-in
users on support.microsoft.com and in-app help panels with these 3 insights:
Top viewed articles for your organization shows you help and training articles that have
been getting the most views by people in your organization.
Trending across organizations shows you the help and training topics that are moving up
the most in your organizations most viewed list.
Commonly viewed together gives you insights into the additional help articles users in all
Microsoft 365 organizations are reading, along with the top viewed and top trending
articles. You can use this info to put together and share training packages for your users.
Use this data to decide which help articles and training resources to share with your users
about these products and apps, or make sure your helpdesk is aware of these areas so they can

--- Page 158 of 2193 ---
answer any user questions. If your org doesn’t have enough views on help and training articles,
you’ll see data from other Microsoft 365 organizations.
There are a couple of ways to get the Experience insights dashboard page:
If you’re a member of the Global reader roles, when you sign in to the Microsoft 365
admin center, you’ll see a one-time prompt to go to the Experience insights (preview)
dashboard. You can access it at any time by selecting Experience insights (preview) from
the admin home page.
If you’re a member of the Reports reader role or the User Experience success manager
roles, once you sign into the admin center, you’ll automatically go to the Experience
insights (preview) dashboard page. You can switch back to the admin center Dashboard
view by selecting that option in the top right.

For more information, see Microsoft 365 Experience insights dashboard.
December 2022
Advanced deployment guides for Microsoft 365
To help you easily find guides for the services you’re deploying, we’ve updated the search
tools, recommendations, and layouts for the Advanced deployment guides & assistance
page in the Microsoft 365 admin center and at setup.microsoft.com .
In this update, you can now:
Save valuable time by exporting your progress in Excel and share your progress as
needed
View the most important actions front and center in the Suggested guides section
Use tags to notify you when a new or updated guide has been released since your last
visit to the page

--- Page 159 of 2193 ---

To get to Advanced deployment guides, sign in to the Microsoft 365 admin center and go to
Setup > Advanced deployment guides & assistance.
You can now find all the same guides from the Microsoft 365 admin center on
setup.microsoft.com . Key updates to this site include:
Expanded searchability to quickly find guides
Better page organization to help you navigate to the right view
Addition of all guides previously only available in the Microsoft 365 admin center (early
2023)
We’ve also released a new advanced deployment guide for setting up your Microsoft Zero
Trust security model and are planning the release of a new guide for Windows 365 Cloud PC
configuration in early 2023.
To learn more, see Simplify deployment of Microsoft 365 with new and updated deployment
guides .
November 2022
Sentiment per Topic available in the NPS survey insights
dashboard
To empower IT Admins like you, the Net Promoter Score (NPS) survey insights dashboard
released the new Sentiment per Topic feature under the sentiment section.

--- Page 160 of 2193 ---
With this new feature, you'll be able to identify the sentiment that is associated with each topic
available. The sentiment is calculated for each NPS feedback comment and tied to a specific
topic. With this new addition, you can discover what trending topics your users are talking
about and understand the feeling they're experiencing regarding that specific topic.
With the new sentiment per topic feature on the NPS survey insights dashboard, you'll be able
to:
Identify the sentiment for each topic
Choose between three sentiments: Positive, Negative, Other
Here are the topics available:
Change Management
Collaboration
Complexity
Navigation
Performance
Reliability
User Education
Value
To access the sentiment per topic insights, sign in to the Microsoft 365 Admin Center and go to
Health > Product feedback > NPS survey insights tab.

For questions or feedback related to NPS survey insights, contact us at
Prosight@microsoft.com.

--- Page 161 of 2193 ---
August 2022
Date filter in the Net Promoter Score (NPS) survey insights
dashboard
Based on your feedback, we're introducing a new function in the NPS survey insights
dashboard that allows Admins like you to filter the Net Promoter Score (NPS) data and insights
per date, so that you can access details based on your date range preference.
With this change, you'll be able to look at the NPS survey insights based on the following date
ranges:
Past 30 days
Past 90 days
Past 180 days
To access, go to Health > Product feedback > NPS survey insights tab.

Learn more about NPS survey insights.
For questions or feedback related to NPS survey insights, contact us at
Prosight@microsoft.com.
July 2022

--- Page 162 of 2193 ---
Multi-tenant billing relationships
You can now create multi-tenant billing relationships with other tenants. A multi-tenant billing
relationship lets you securely share your organization's billing account with other tenants, while
maintaining control over your billing data.
This feature is available to organizational account customers with a Microsoft Customer
Agreement.
For more information, see Manage billing across multiple tenants in the Microsoft 365 admin
center.
May 2022
Role based access controls (RBAC)
There are four new roles in the Microsoft 365 admin center for management of custom security
attributes. These roles are available for everyone to use in the Microsoft 365 admin center
under Roles.
Attribute Assignment Administrator Assign custom security attribute keys and values to
supported Azure AD objects.
Attribute Assignment Reader Reads custom security attribute keys and values for
supported Azure AD objects.
Attribute Definition Administrator Define and manage the definition of custom security
attributes.
Attribute Definition Reader Reads the definition of custom security attributes.
There's also a new role that allows you to give admins only the access they need to manage
Virtual Visits.
Virtual Visits Administrator Manage and share Virtual Visits information and metrics from
admin centers or the Virtual Visits app.
For more information about these roles, see Azure AD built-in roles.
Quick Assist
We've moved Quick Assist to the Windows Store to enhance the performance and security of
the app. The Windows Quick Assist app allows you and your end-users to receive or provide PC

--- Page 163 of 2193 ---
assistance over a remote connection.
With the new Quick Assist Store app, you should see a significant improvement in passcode
generation times and a reduction in application errors.
For more information, see Solve PC problems over a remote connection and Install Quick
Assist
April 2022
NPS Sentiment Insights
NPS survey insights is an AI-driven dashboard available in the Microsoft 365 admin center.
In the admin center, go to Health > Product feedback > NPS survey insights.
This feature helps admins like you obtain actionable insights derived from Microsoft NPS
surveys your users have responded to. Learn more at Microsoft product NPS feedback and
insights for your organization.
Based on your feedback, we're introducing a new feature that identifies the sentiment for each
NPS verbatim feedback, so that you can learn what your users are feeling regarding Microsoft
365 products. Sentiment labels such as Positive, Negative and Other are assigned to the NPS
verbatim feedback.
With the sentiment feature on the NPS survey insights dashboard you'll be able to:
Visualize sentiment trend for the last 12 months based on the NPS verbatim feedback.
Identify the sentiment per app and platform.
Three sentiments are available:

--- Page 164 of 2193 ---
To provide you with a better experience using the NPS survey insight dashboard, we suggest
checking the following items:
Encourage your users to submit feedback.
Confirm in-product survey policies are enabled.
Improve diagnosability by enabling Windows Error Reporting.
７ Note
If you're an enterprise customer and you're interested in joining our design sessions, send
us an email at: prosight@microsoft.com
Microsoft 365 admin center search
You can now view all search results in a separate browser page by searching in global search
and selecting Enter.
With our new separate page of search results, you can explore a more comprehensive list of
results and easily return to the browser page for a more efficient search experience.

--- Page 165 of 2193 ---

Search in distribution lists to add Priority Accounts
Previously, you could only tag priority accounts by searching for them using the person's
name, e-mail address or job title. With this update, you can now search for people to add to
priority accounts in a distribution list. This allows you to bulk add people in an efficient way
and reduces the time needed to tag individual people in your organization.

--- Page 166 of 2193 ---
You can tag up to 50 users from a distribution list as priority accounts in a single action.
Additional information about the user like department and job title has been introduced
on the Priority Accounts page.
You can only tag user accounts within distribution lists, and not the list itself. Users who
have already been tagged won’t show up in your distribution list search.
Last updated on 11/16/2025

--- Page 167 of 2193 ---
Search in the Microsoft 365 admin center
As the administrator of a Microsoft 365 organization, you can use search to find users, perform
actions, navigate to different settings, and read documentation. You can use search from every
page in the admin center. The search box is located in the banner area at the top of the admin
center. You can use the Alt+S shortcut to use search from any page.
Search results are organized into different categories. Most of the categories are items in the
admin center. For example, users, groups, shared mailboxes, or domains. Other categories
show you places you can navigate to, actions you can take or app level settings that you can
change. And there's also a category related to documentation.
The following sections describe the different areas and categories in the admin center that are
searchable.
Before you begin
You need to be an administrator to search in the admin center. Search results are scoped to
administrator permissions the logged in user has. For example, if SharePoint admin doesn't see
an area or category in the admin center, they can't see it in search.
Users
You can find users by display name, last name, first name, username, primary email address, or
email aliases. Select the user's name edit to edit the user’s details.
If you select the three dots (more actions) menu next to their name, you can reset their
password.

--- Page 168 of 2193 ---
Tips to improve user search results
Make sure you spell the users' names correctly as user searches are matched exactly
against the earlier mentioned properties. For example, in the above example, Jus or Malz
will work but a misspelling, like, Jostin instead of Justin won't find this user.
To get an exact match, search by primary email address or username.
Copilot
Search now includes Microsoft 365 Copilot admin settings. You can search for Copilot usage
info and service management.
Groups
You can search for Groups by group name or group email address. You can select the Group
and edit the group from any page.

--- Page 169 of 2193 ---
Tips to improve Group search results
Make sure you spell the group name correctly.
Actions
You can search for Actions category, which contains frequently used actions in Microsoft 365
Admin Center. Think of actions as verb in the system. For example, you can also search "reset
password" from any page and then reset one or more passwords for users. You can search for
“delete a user” and delete the user from the Delete user page.
Navigation
Results provides a way to quickly navigate to a specific page in the admin center. For example,
searching for RBAC takes you to the Roles page for Microsoft Entra roles.

--- Page 170 of 2193 ---
Settings
Search for supported app level settings related to your organization, the services you subscribe
to, and security and privacy settings.
Domain
You can find quick links to your domains, and then the link takes you to that domain's overview
page.
Documentation

--- Page 171 of 2193 ---
A documentation search provides relevant help documentation based on your search phrase.
Select the article to learn more.
Send us feedback
Use this section to submit feedback on the search experience. We can't respond to all
feedback, but we read all of it, and use your feedback to improve the search experience. Make
sure to provide as much detail as you can in your feedback.
Last updated on 02/02/2026

--- Page 172 of 2193 ---
Manage multiple tenants in the Microsoft
365 admin center
Multitenant management in the Microsoft 365 admin center offers a unified approach that
allows partner administrators to manage all their tenants in a single location. This streamlined
solution helps partners with delegated administrator roles efficiently manage multiple
Microsoft 365 tenants. If you're a partner managing multiple tenants, you can:
Move quickly between tenants you manage
Assess service health, products, and billing across multiple tenants
On the All tenants page, quickly see the health of all your tenants' services, any open
service requests, your products and billing, and the number of users in that tenant
Before you begin
You must have the Global Administrator role assigned to perform this task.
） Important
Global Administrator is a highly privileged role. Limit its use to emergency scenarios when
you can't use another role. For more information, see About admin roles in the Microsoft
365 admin center.
Move between tenants
1. In the Microsoft 365 admin center , select a tenant name.
2. Using the Tenant switcher, you can move quickly between tenants you manage.

--- Page 173 of 2193 ---
View the All tenants page
1. In the Microsoft 365 admin center , in the navigation pane, select All tenants.
2. On the All tenants page, take one or more of the following steps:
Assess service health
Review license usage
Search for or select the tenant you want to manage
Pin your most often visited tenant to the top of the list.
If you mark a tenant as a favorite, the list automatically expands the tenant. Then you can
immediately view the status details.
View service health for all tenants
The service health view shows you if any incidents or advisories are affecting the tenants. It also
tells you how many of your managed tenants are affected.
1. In the Microsoft 365 admin center , in the multitenant view, select Service Health.
2. On the Service health page aggregated view, you can also see the total number of
incidents, the total number of advisories affecting any of the managed tenants, and the

--- Page 174 of 2193 ---
number of services with active incidents. You can also see if any incidents and advisories
affect your tenants.
You can use the filter option to view issues by issue type or by service.
You can review issues under All services or All issues tabs.
3. Select an incident on the All services or All issues tab to get more information about any
incident on the Overview tab. Select the Tenants affected tab to get a list of the affected
tenants.

--- Page 175 of 2193 ---
You can export the list of affected tenants to CSV format so that admins can share it with
support teams.
View a single tenant in the Microsoft 365 admin
center
You can return to the Microsoft 365 admin center for any of the tenants from the All tenants
page.
1. In the Microsoft 365 admin center , in the navigation pane, select All tenants.
2. Select the tenant name for which you want to view the Microsoft 365 admin center.
The admin center opens for that tenant.
Related content
Overview of Microsoft 365 Lighthouse
Multitenant organization capabilities in Microsoft Entra ID
Microsoft Entra built-in roles
What is Partner Center?
Add and manage multiple tenants in your Partner Center account
Last updated on 01/06/2026

--- Page 176 of 2193 ---
Add users and assign licenses in Microsoft
365
Each person in your organization needs a user account before they can sign in and access
Microsoft 365 for business . This article describes how to add users one at a time, or adds
multiple users at once.
If you need help with adding users, Get support for Microsoft 365 for business.
Before you begin
Make sure that licenses are purchased for users. For more information, see Buy or remove
licenses for a Microsoft business subscription.
You must be a license or user administrator to add users and assign licenses. For more
information, see About admin roles.
） Important
Use roles with the fewest permissions. Lower permissioned accounts help improve security
for your organization. Global Administrator is a highly privileged role. Limit its use to
emergency scenarios when you can't use an existing role. For more information, see
About admin roles in the Microsoft 365 admin center.
Add a user in Microsoft 365
The following video shows how to add a user in Microsoft 365. It's one minute and 57 seconds
long.
https://learn-video.azurefd.net/vod/player?id=5cbb17c5-30f3-42cd-a10e-
d07c3013c609&locale=en-us&embedUrl=%2Fmicrosoft-365%2Fadmin%2Fadd-
users%2Fadd-users
７ Note
The steps used in the video show the simplified view starting point for adding users, but
the remaining steps are the same as the dashboard view.
Sign in to the Microsoft 365 admin center .

--- Page 177 of 2193 ---
1. Determine which admin center view you're currently using.
If the top of the Microsoft 365 admin center shows Dashboard view, go to Users >
Active users, and select Add a user.
If the top of the Microsoft 365 admin center shows Simplified view, select Add user.
You can select either the Add user button at the top of the page or in the Users tab
under Your organization.
2. Set up the basics: fill in the basic user information, and then select Next.
Name: Fill in the first name, family name, display name, and username.
Domains: Choose the domain for the user's account. For example, if their username
is Jakob, and the domain is contoso.com, then they sign in with jakob@contoso.com.
Password settings:
By default, the option to Automatically create a password is selected. If you
deselect this option, create a strong password for the user.
By default, the option to Require this user to change their password when they
first sign in is selected. The user must change their password after 90 days.
3. Assign product licenses: select the location and the appropriate license for the user.

--- Page 178 of 2193 ---
If you don't have any licenses available, you can still add a user and buy more
licenses.
To limit the apps the user has a license for, expand Apps and select or deselect apps.
4. Optional settings:
If you want to make this user an admin, expand Roles.
To add more information about the user, expand Profile info.
5. Review and finish: review your new user's settings, make further changes, and then select
Finish adding.
6. On the completion page:
To give the user their password, select Print to create a hard copy or a PDF of their
credentials that you can securely share with them.
To help them get started with Microsoft 365, send them an email that contains
useful information.
Decide whether you want to save these user settings as a template.
Choose whether you want to add another user or Close the Add a user pane.
Add multiple users in Microsoft 365
The following video shows how to add multiple users in Microsoft 365. It's one minute and 31
seconds long.
https://learn-video.azurefd.net/vod/player?id=1c0d7aa1-ac30-4e7c-b889-
27162883945b&locale=en-us&embedUrl=%2Fmicrosoft-365%2Fadmin%2Fadd-
users%2Fadd-users
Add multiple users in the dashboard view
1. In the Microsoft 365 admin center , go to Users > Active users, and then select Add
multiple users.
2. Add list of users: choose whether to add users via rows on this page or upload a CSV
with user information.

--- Page 179 of 2193 ---
If you select I'd like to upload a CSV with user information, follow these steps:
a. Download either the blank CSV file or file that includes example user information.
b. Open and edit the CSV file, and fill in values for user name and display name for each
user you want to add. For example, bob@contoso.com, Bob Kelly. Don't change the
column headings or the order of columns.
c. When you're done entering the users' information in your spreadsheet, save it in CSV
format.

--- Page 180 of 2193 ---
d. In the Microsoft 365 admin center, select Browse, go to the location of your CSV file,
and select Open.
3. Licenses: select the location, licenses, and apps you want to assign to all new users.
4. Review and finish adding multiple users: Review your selections and select Add users.
Other methods to add multiple users
You can also use any of the following methods to add multiple users at the same time:
Automate adding accounts and assigning licenses. Choose this method if you're already
familiar with using Windows PowerShell cmdlets. For more information, see Create user
accounts with Microsoft 365 PowerShell.
Synchronize with Active Directory. Use the Microsoft Entra Connect tool to replicate
Active Directory user accounts in Microsoft 365. The sync only adds the user accounts.
You must assign licenses to the synced users before they can use email and other apps
for Microsoft 365. For more information, see Set up directory synchronization for
Microsoft 365.
Migrate email accounts from Exchange. When you migrate multiple mailboxes to
Microsoft 365 by using either cutover, staged, or a hybrid Exchange method, you
automatically add users as part of the migration. The migration only adds the user
accounts. You must assign licenses to the users before they can use email and other apps
for Microsoft 365. If you don't assign a license to a user, their mailbox is disabled after a
grace period of 30 days. Learn how to assign licenses to users in the Microsoft 365 admin
center. For more information, see Ways to migrate multiple email accounts to Microsoft
365.
Create, edit, or delete custom user views
If you're a user management admin of a Microsoft 365 for business subscription, you can
create up to 50 custom user views to view subsets of users. These views are in addition to the
standard set of views. You can create, edit, or delete custom user views, and all admins can
access the custom views you create.
When you create, edit, or delete a custom user view, all admins in your company see the
changes in the Filter set list when they go to the Active users page.
Standard filters

--- Page 181 of 2193 ---
The Filter set list displays standard user views by default. You can't edit or delete standard
views. The standard filters include:
Billing admins
Global admins
Guest users
Helpdesk admins
Licensed users
Service support admins
Unlicensed users
User admins
Users with errors
A few things to note about standard views:
If there are more than 2,000 users in the list, some standard views display an unsorted list.
To locate specific users in this list, use the search field.
If you didn't purchase Microsoft 365 from Microsoft, Billing admins don't appear in the
standard views list. For more information, see Assigning admin roles.
Custom filters
To create a custom filter, select New filter from the Filter set list. This action opens the Custom
filter pane.
Create and edit your custom views in the Custom filter pane. If you select multiple filter
options, you get results that contain users who match all the selected criteria. Many conditions
are available for custom filters, such as:
Domain: If you have multiple domains for your organization, you can choose from the list
of available domains.
Sign-in status: Choose users that are allowed or blocked.
Location: Choose a location from the list of countries/regions.
Assigned product license: Choose from the list of licenses that are available to your
organization. Use this filter to show users who have the assigned license. Users might also
have other licenses.
You can also filter by other user profile details used in your organization, such as department,
city, state or province, country/region, or job title.
You can select these Other conditions:

--- Page 182 of 2193 ---
Synchronized users only: Select this option to show all users who are synced with the
local Active Directory. This filter works whether you activate the users or not.
Users with errors: Select this option to show users who might have provisioning errors.
Unlicensed users: Select this option to find all the users who aren't assigned a license.
The results for this view can also include users who have an Exchange mailbox but don't
have a license. To track those users specifically, use the filter Unlicensed users with
Exchange mailboxes or archives. The results for this view can also include users who have
an Exchange archive, but don't have a license.
Unlicensed users with Exchange mailboxes or archives: Select this option to show user
accounts that you created in Exchange Online and who were assigned an Exchange
mailbox, but didn't get a Microsoft 365 license. The results of this filter include users who
have or who were assigned an Exchange archive.
７ Note
The Unlicensed users with Exchange mailboxes filter works when:
The mailbox was recently converted from shared to user and it has no license.
The mailbox was recently migrated to Microsoft 365 but a license wasn't assigned.
The mailbox was created using PowerShell, and a license wasn't assigned.
A new mailbox is provisioned for the user, and that mailbox was created on-
premises with the New-RemoteMailbox cmdlet.
Create a custom user view
In the Microsoft 365 admin center , go to Users > Active users.
1. On Active users, select Filter set and select New filter.
2. On the Custom filter pane, enter the name for your filter, choose the conditions for your
custom filter, and then select Add.
Your custom view is now included in the custom filters set.
Edit or delete a custom user view
In the Microsoft 365 admin center , go to Users > Active users.
1. On Active users, select Filter set, select Custom filters set, and switch to the filter you
want to change. You can only edit custom filters.

--- Page 183 of 2193 ---
2. Select Filter set again, then select Edit filter.
3. On the Custom filter pane:
To change the filter: edit the conditions, then select Save.
To delete the filter: select the ellipsis (...), then select Delete.
Next steps
1. When you add a user, make sure to print their information and send it to them in a secure
manner.
2. Share the Employee quick setup in Microsoft 365 for business to help your new users
get started.
3. If you need help with adding users, Contact support for Microsoft 365 for business
Related content
Add several users at the same time to Microsoft 365
Restore a user in Microsoft 365
Assign licenses to users
Delete a user from your organization
Small business help & learning
Microsoft 365 small business help (YouTube)
Last updated on 01/06/2026

--- Page 184 of 2193 ---
Assign or unassign licenses for users in the
Microsoft 365 admin center
Summarize this article for me
Check out all of our small business content on Small business help & learning .
You can assign or unassign licenses for users in the Microsoft 365 admin center on either the
Active users page, or on the Licenses page. The method you use depends on whether you
want to assign or unassign licenses for specific users, or assign or unassign users for a specific
product. You can also add a user and assign a license at the same time.
７ Note
As an admin, you can't assign or unassign licenses for a self-service purchase
subscription bought by a user in your organization. You can take over a purchase or
trial subscription, and then assign or unassign licenses.
For some subscriptions, you can only cancel during a limited window of time after
you buy or renew your subscription. If the cancellation window has passed, turn off
recurring billing to cancel the subscription at the end of its term.
Before you begin
You must be at least a License or User Administrator to assign licenses. For more
information, see About Microsoft 365 admin roles.
In addition to the steps described in this article, you can also use the Microsoft Graph
PowerShell SDK to assign Microsoft 365 licenses to user accounts with PowerShell or
remove Microsoft 365 licenses from user accounts with PowerShell.
To use group-based licensing, see Assign licenses to users by group membership in
Microsoft Entra ID
Some services, like Sway, are automatically assigned to users, and don't need to be
assigned individually.
You can also delete user accounts that were assigned a license to make their license
available to other users. When you delete a user account, their license is immediately
available to assign to someone else.
If you're a Cloud Solution Provider (CSP) and you bought products on behalf of a
customer, you can't use the Your products page to assign or unassign licenses for certain
products, like perpetual software. To assign or unassign licenses for those products, use
the Licenses page.

--- Page 185 of 2193 ---
Use the Licenses page to assign or unassign
licenses
1. In the admin center, go to the Billing > Licenses page.
2. Select a product.
3. On the product details page, select Assign licenses.
4. In the Assign licenses panel, begin typing the name of a user or group, and then select it
from the results to add it to the list. You can add up to 20 users and/or groups at a time.
5. Select Turn apps and services on or off to assign or remove access to specific items.
6. When you're finished, select Assign, then close the right pane.
If there’s a problem completing the assignment, you see a status message when the action
finishes. If some users in a group couldn’t be assigned licenses, select View errors and issues
to see details for each affected user. After resolving the issue, you can retry the assignment.
How license assignments appear on the Licenses page
On the Licenses page, assignments are displayed based on how the license was applied:
Direct user assignments If a license is assigned directly to a user, the user appears
individually in the list of assignments for that product.
Group-based assignments If a license is assigned to a group, the group name appears in
the list instead of individual users. To see which users are receiving the license through
that group, go to the Teams & groups > Active teams & groups page to view its
members.
The Licenses page might show an aggregate total of licenses for all subscriptions for the same
product name. For example, you might have one subscription for Microsoft 365 Business
Premium that has five licenses, and another subscription that has eight licenses for the same
product. The Licenses page shows that you have a total of 13 licenses for Microsoft 365
Business Premium across all your subscriptions. This number is different from what you see on
the Your products page, which displays a row for each subscription you own, even if they are
for the same product.
Change the apps and services a user has access to
1. In the admin center, go to the Billing > Licenses page.
2. On the Licenses page, select the row for a specific user or group you want to change.
3. In the details pane, select or deselect the apps and services that you want to give access
to or remove access from.
4. When you're finished, select Save, then select Close.

--- Page 186 of 2193 ---
Unassign licenses by using the Licenses page
1. In the admin center, go to the Billing > Licenses page.
2. Select a product.
3. Select the check boxes of the users or groups for whom you want to unassign licenses.
4. Select Unassign licenses.
Understand errors and issues when managing licenses
The Microsoft 365 admin center provides a list of Errors & Issues to help you understand what
happened and take action when licenses aren’t applied as expected.
For each product, you can open the Errors & Issues tab to do the following:
View licensing errors, which shows users who didn’t receive a license and the reason for
the failure.
Identify users without licenses, even if the assignment was attempted.
Select a user to see details, including their current status and available options for fixing
the issue.
Common reasons you might see errors or issues include the following:
No available licenses for the selected product
Conflicting services or license plans
An invalid usage location
After you resolve the underlying issue—such as freeing up licenses, adjusting services, or
updating user or group membership—you can retry the assignment directly from the Errors &
Issues tab. Select the user with the error to open the details pane, then select Reprocess.
Reprocessing attempts to apply the license again using the current configuration and available
licenses.
Use the Active users page to assign or unassign
licenses
When you use the Active users page to assign or unassign licenses, you assign or unassign
users licenses to products.
Assign licenses to one user
1. In the admin center, go to the Users > Active users page.
2. Select the row of the user that you want to assign a license to.

--- Page 187 of 2193 ---
3. In the right pane, select Licenses and Apps.
4. Expand the Licenses section, select the boxes for the licenses that you want to assign,
then select Save changes.
Assign licenses to multiple users
1. In the admin center, go to the Users > Active users page.
2. Select the circles next to the names of the users that you want to assign licenses to.
3. At the top, select Manage product licenses.
4. In the Manage product licenses pane, select Assign more: Keep the existing licenses and
assign more > Next.
5. Under Licenses, select the box for the license(s) that you want the selected users to have.
By default, all services associated with those licenses are automatically assigned to the
users. You can limit which services are available to the users. Deselect the boxes for the
services that you don't want the users to have.
6. At the bottom of the pane, select Save changes.
You might have to buy more licenses if you don't have enough licenses for everyone.
７ Note
If you want to assign licenses for a large number of users, use Assign or unassign licenses
to a group in the Microsoft 365 admin center.
Use the Active users page to unassign licenses
When you use the Active users page to unassign licenses, you remove product licenses from
users.
Unassign licenses from one user
1. In the admin center, go to the Users > Active users page.
2. Select the row of the user that you want to unassign a license for.
3. In the right pane, select Licenses and Apps.
4. Expand the Licenses section, clear the boxes for the licenses that you want to unassign,
then select Save changes.

--- Page 188 of 2193 ---
Unassign licenses from multiple users
1. In the admin center, go to the Users > Active users page.
2. Select the circles next to the names of the users who you want to unassign licenses for.
3. At the top, select Manage product licenses.
4. In the Manage product licenses pane, select Unassign all > Save changes.
5. At the bottom of the pane, select Done.
What happens to a user's data when you remove
their license?
When a license is removed from a user, Exchange Online data that is associated with that
account is held for 30 days. After the 30-day grace period, the data is deleted and can't
be recovered. However, it's linked to the retention policy, and the content that matches
retention labels is retained for discovery.
Files saved in OneDrive for Business aren't deleted unless the user is deleted from the
Microsoft 365 admin center or is removed through Active Directory synchronization. For
more information, see OneDrive retention and deletion.
When the license is removed, the user's mailbox is no longer searchable by using an
eDiscovery tool such as Content Search or eDiscovery (Premium).
If you have an Enterprise subscription, like Office 365 Enterprise E3, Exchange Online lets
you preserve the mailbox data of a deleted user account by using inactive mailboxes. For
more information, see Create and manage inactive mailboxes in Exchange Online.
To learn how to block a user's access to Microsoft 365 data after their license is removed,
and how to get access to the data afterwards, see Overview: Remove a former employee
and secure data.
If you remove a user's license and they still have Microsoft 365 productivity apps installed,
they see Unlicensed Product and activation errors in Office when they use Microsoft
365 productivity apps.
Next steps
If you assigned licenses and your users don't have Microsoft 365 productivity apps installed,
you can share the Employee quick setup in Microsoft 365 for business with your users to set
up things like Download and install or reinstall Microsoft 365 or Office 2021 on a PC or Mac
and Set up Microsoft 365 apps and email on a mobile device .
If you unassigned licenses and you don't plan to reassign the unused licenses to other users,
consider removing the licenses from your subscription so that you're not paying for more
licenses than you need.

--- Page 189 of 2193 ---
Related content
Understand subscriptions and licenses in Microsoft 365 for business (article)
Buy or remove licenses for a Microsoft business subscription (article)
Last updated on 02/21/2026

--- Page 190 of 2193 ---
Assign admin roles in the Microsoft 365
admin center
A Microsoft 365 subscription comes with a set of administrator roles that you can assign to
users in your organization by using the Microsoft 365 admin center . Each administrator role
maps to common business functions and gives people in your organization permissions to do
specific tasks in the admin centers. For more information, see About administrator roles.
） Important
If you're the one who purchased your organization's Microsoft 365 for business
subscription, you're the Global Administrator by default. This role gives you unlimited
control over the products in your subscriptions and access to most data. The Global
Administrator role is a highly privileged role. As a best practice, make sure to limit the
number of people in your organization who have the Global Administrator role assigned.
When you add new users, if you don't assign them an administrator role, they're assigned a
user role. Users don't have administrator privileges to any of the Microsoft admin centers.
Remember also to assign licenses when you add new users.
If you need help with administrative tasks, you can assign an administrator role to a trusted
user. In keeping with best practices, assign the role that's needed to complete specific tasks.
For example, if you need someone to help reset user passwords, assign them the Password
Administrator role and not the Global Administrator role.
You can assign users to a role in two different ways in the Microsoft 365 admin center:
Go to the user's details and select Manage roles to assign a role to the user.
Go to Roles, select the role, and then add multiple users to it.
Overview to add an administrator
The following video shows how to add another administrator in the Microsoft 365 admin
center. It's one minute and 13 seconds long.
https://learn-video.azurefd.net/vod/player?id=a36dde8d-891d-422f-bb4d-
7301df75fe4a&locale=en-us&embedUrl=%2Fmicrosoft-365%2Fadmin%2Fadd-
users%2Fassign-admin-roles
 Tip

--- Page 191 of 2193 ---
If you found this video helpful, check out the complete training series for small
businesses and customers new to Microsoft 365 on YouTube.
Add an administrator
When you sign up for Microsoft 365 for business for your organization, you're automatically a
Global Administrator. You can assign other administrator roles as well.
1. In the Microsoft 365 admin center , select Users > Active users. (Or, go directly to the
Active users page .)
2. Choose the user you want to make an administrator, then select Manage roles.
3. Select the administrator access you want the user to have and select Save changes. For
recommendations about least privileged roles, see Least privileged roles by task in
Microsoft Entra ID.
Assign administrator roles to users using Roles
1. In the Microsoft 365 admin center , go to Roles > Role assignments. (Or go directly to
the Role assignments page .)
To view the administrator roles available for your organization, choose the Microsoft
Entra ID, Exchange, Intune, or Billing tab. The specific tabs you see depend on your
organization's Microsoft 365 subscription.
2. Select the administrator role that you want to assign the user to. (See Least privileged
roles by task in Microsoft Entra ID.)
3. On the Assigned tab, select Add users or Add groups.
4. Type the user's display name or username, then select the user from the list of
suggestions.
5. Add multiple users until you're done.
6. Select Add, and the user or users are added to the list of assigned administrators.
Assign a user to an administrator role from Active users
1. In the admin center, go to Users > Active users. (Or, go directly to the Active users
page .)

--- Page 192 of 2193 ---
2. On Active users, select the user whose administrator role you want to change. In the
flyout pane, under Roles, select Manage roles.
3. Select the administrator role that you want to assign to the user. If you don't see the role
you're looking for, select Show all at the bottom of the list. (See Least privileged roles by
task in Microsoft Entra ID.)
Assign administrator roles to multiple users
If you know PowerShell, see Assign roles to user accounts with PowerShell. It's ideal for
assigning roles to hundreds of users.
Use the following instructions to assign roles to tens of users.
Export, search, and filter
You can export the administrator list and search and filter by role.
Use Export admin list to get a full list of all the administrator users in your organization.
The list is stored in an Excel .csv file.
Use Search to search for an administrator role and see your users who are assigned to
that role.
Use Filter to change your view of displayed administrator roles.
Check administrator roles in your organization
You might not have the correct permissions to assign administrator roles to other users. Check
to make sure you have the correct permissions or ask another administrator to assign roles for
you.
You can check administrator role permissions in two different ways:
Go to the user's details and look under Roles on the Account page.
Go to Roles, select the administrator role, and select assigned administrators to see which
users are assigned.
Compare roles

--- Page 193 of 2193 ---
You can now compare permissions for up to three roles at a time so you can find the least
permissive role to assign.
In the admin center:
Select up to three roles and choose Compare roles to see the permissions each role has.
Related content
About Microsoft 365 administrator roles
Microsoft Entra built-in roles
Least privileged roles by task in Microsoft Entra ID
Assign roles to user accounts with PowerShell

--- Page 194 of 2193 ---
Add, change, or remove partner relationships
Assign or unassign licenses for users in the Microsoft 365 admin center
Last updated on 01/06/2026

--- Page 195 of 2193 ---
Turn pronouns on or off for your
organization in the Microsoft 365
admin center
As a Microsoft 365 administrator, you can turn on a feature that lets all users in your organization
add their pronouns on their profile cards in Microsoft 365. The pronouns feature is off by default
and requires configuration to turn on.
Before you decide to turn the feature on or off, see the following resources:
Pronouns on your profile in Microsoft 365
Frequently asked questions about pronouns in Microsoft 365
Pronouns best practices
Pronouns are stored together with a user's other profile data in Microsoft 365 and can be
temporarily cached in other Exchange mailboxes (within the same tenant) for faster access by
Copilot experiences. The cached data is updated when profile data is updated, and can't be
accessed or edited by the user who owns the mailbox where the data is cached.
Pronouns are stored with other data in the user's Exchange mailbox. For more information, see
Data Residency for Exchange Online.
For example, if a user changes their pronouns in the profile card, the cached data in another
user's mailbox is updated with the new pronouns. Users can't edit someone else's pronouns; they
can only see pronouns through experiences that show pronouns. Microsoft 365 Copilot is an
example of an experience that has access to pronouns.
） Important
Knowing someone's pronouns doesn't always equate to knowing their gender identity.
We encourage you to understand any applicable local laws, regulations, and cultural
norms that might pose extra risk to employees should their pronouns be publicly
displayed, and take this information into consideration when you decide whether to
turn on this feature.
If you decide to use the pronouns feature, we recommend that you engage with
internal and/or external subject matter experts in transgender inclusion to consider

--- Page 196 of 2193 ---
how pronoun display can complement, not substitute, more comprehensive efforts to
support transgender communities in your organization.
Before you begin
You must be a Global Administrator to do the task in this article. For more information, see About
admin roles.
Ｕ Caution
Global Administrators have almost unlimited access to your organization's settings and most
of its data. To help keep your organization secure, we recommend that you limit the number
of Global Administrators as much as possible.
Before you decide to turn the pronouns feature on or off, consider the following:
When you turn the pronouns feature on or off, it can take up to seven hours for users to see
changes. For example, if you turn on the pronouns feature, users can't see the option to add
pronouns on their profile for up to seven hours. If you turn off the pronouns feature, any
previously set pronouns might stay visible in Microsoft 365 (for example, on profiles) for up
to seven hours.
When you turn the pronouns feature off, all the pronouns data created by users is deleted.
The data deletion process could take up to 30 days to complete. If you turn the pronouns
feature back on within that period, any hidden pronouns that haven't yet been deleted from
Microsoft servers become visible in Microsoft 365 experiences, such as profiles.
After a user adds pronouns to their profile, the pronouns are visible to everyone in your
organization. Users can't control who can see their pronouns in Microsoft 365 in your
organization. However, pronouns aren't visible to people outside the organization.
Copilot has access to pronouns from a user's profile and uses what's available at the time of
writing when generating text about the user. If the user changes or deletes the pronouns
from their profile, pronouns in previously generated text aren't updated retroactively. For
example, if Copilot is used to produce a meeting summary, the summary uses the pronouns
available at the time and they won't be changed if the user referred to changes to their
pronouns after the summary is produced.
Turn the pronouns feature on or off

--- Page 197 of 2193 ---
1. In the Microsoft 365 admin center, go to the Settings > Org settings page, and select the
Security & privacy tab.
2. Select Pronouns.
3. To turn on the pronouns feature, in the Pronouns pane, select the Turn on and allow
pronouns checkbox. To turn off the pronouns feature, clear the checkbox.
4. Select Save.
To turn the pronouns feature on or off for your organization using Microsoft Graph, see Manage
pronouns settings for an organization using the Microsoft Graph API.
Next steps
Consider notifying your users about the availability of the pronouns feature. We suggest that you
share the following article with your users: Pronouns on your profile in Microsoft 365 .
Related content
Pronouns best practices
Frequently asked questions about pronouns in Microsoft 365
Profile cards in Microsoft 365
Pronouns on your profile in Microsoft 365
Last updated on 04/21/2026

--- Page 198 of 2193 ---
Guests in the Microsoft 365 admin center
09/18/2025
By default, guest access for Microsoft 365 Groups is turned on for your organization. Admins
can control whether to allow guest access to groups for their whole organization or for
individual groups.
Any guests you add to your Microsoft Teams, SharePoint, or Microsoft Entra External ID are
also added to the Guest users list in the Microsoft 365 admin center . Guests can attend
meetings, view documents, and chat in Teams they're invited to. Once a user shows up in the
Guest users list, you can remove their access there.
To view guests, in the Microsoft 365 admin center , in the left nav, expand Users, and then
choose Guest users.
Before you begin
To add a guest, you need to have a role that allows you to create users in your tenant directory.
For example, at least a Guest Inviter role or a User Administrator.
） Important
Use roles with the fewest permissions. Lower permissioned accounts help improve security
for your organization. Global Administrator is a highly privileged role. Limit its use to
emergency scenarios when you can't use an existing role. For more information, see
About admin roles in the Microsoft 365 admin center.
Add guests to Teams
The following video shows how to create a team with guests in Microsoft Teams. It's one
minute and 26 seconds long.
https://learn-video.azurefd.net/vod/player?id=573823a3-19cf-4b2e-932f-
7be1896b2821&locale=en-us&embedUrl=%2Fmicrosoft-365%2Fadmin%2Fadd-
users%2Fabout-guest-users
Join a team as a guest
The following video shows how to join a team as a guest in Microsoft Teams. It's one minute
and 38 seconds long.

--- Page 199 of 2193 ---
https://learn-video.azurefd.net/vod/player?id=b7af266b-0507-4922-b11d-
8258865f44dd&locale=en-us&embedUrl=%2Fmicrosoft-365%2Fadmin%2Fadd-
users%2Fabout-guest-users
Understanding guest accounts in Microsoft 365
To easily share files and documents with the right people while preventing oversharing, you
need to plan your approach. The following resources provide more background to help you
create a secure guest sharing environment in Microsoft 365.
Plan external collaboration
Create a secure guest sharing environment
Set up secure file and document sharing and collaboration with Teams in Microsoft 365
Guest access in Microsoft Teams
In addition to Microsoft Teams and SharePoint, Microsoft 365 also supports guest access in
other applications. The following Microsoft 365 products support guest access.
Power Apps (Canvas apps): Share a canvas app with guests.
Lists: External or guest sharing in OneDrive, SharePoint, and Lists .
OneDrive: External or guest sharing in OneDrive, SharePoint, and Lists .
Planner: Applies to Web and mobile platforms. Guest access in Microsoft Planner .
Microsoft 365 Groups: Manage guest access in Microsoft 365 Groups.
Viva Engage: Work with external groups in Viva Engage networks not aligned to native
mode.
For apps in Microsoft 365 like Word and Excel, the location of the output file controls guest
access. For example, Microsoft SharePoint, Teams, and OneDrive.
Next steps: Add guests in Microsoft Entra External
ID
To add guests in Microsoft Entra External ID, see add a guest.
After you add a user, you can also assign them to a group or give them access to an app in
your organization. When you add a user in the Microsoft Entra admin center, the user also
appears on the Guest users page in the Microsoft 365 admin center .
To invite multiple guests to collaborate with your organization, see add guests in bulk.
Related content

--- Page 200 of 2193 ---
Prevent guests from being added to a specific Microsoft 365 group or Microsoft Teams

--- Page 201 of 2193 ---
Manage guest access in Microsoft
365 groups
By default, guest access for Microsoft 365 groups is turned on for your organization.
Administrators can control whether to allow guest access to groups for the whole organization or
for individual groups.
When it's turned on, group members can invite guests to a Microsoft 365 group through Outlook
on the web. The group owner receives the invitations for approval.
Once approved, the guest is added to the directory and the group.
７ Note
Viva Engage Enterprise networks that are in Native Mode or within the EU Geo don't support
network guests. Microsoft 365 Connected Viva Engage groups don't currently support guest
access, but you can create nonconnected, external groups in your Viva Engage network. See
Create and manage external groups in Viva Engage for instructions.
Guest access in groups is often used as part of a broader scenario that includes SharePoint or
Teams. These services have their own guest sharing settings. For complete instructions for setting
up guest sharing across groups, SharePoint, and Teams, see:
Collaborate with guests in a site
Collaborate with guests in a team
Manage groups guest access
To enable or disable guest access in groups, use the Groups settings.
1. In the Microsoft 365 admin center , go to Show all > Settings > Org settings. On the
Services tab, select Microsoft 365 Groups.
2. On Microsoft 365 Groups, choose whether you want to let people outside your
organization access group resources or let group owners add people outside your
organization to groups.

--- Page 202 of 2193 ---
Add guests to a Microsoft 365 group in the
admin center
If the guest already exists in your directory, you can add them to your groups from the Microsoft
365 admin center . You must manage groups with dynamic membership in Microsoft Entra ID.
1. In the admin center, go to Teams & groups > Active teams & groups .
2. Select the group you want to add the guest to and select Membership > Members.
3. Select Add members and choose the name of the guest you want to add.
4. Select Save.
To add a guest to the directory directly, you can Add Microsoft Entra B2B collaboration users in
the Azure portal.
To edit any of a guest's information, you can Add or update a user's profile information using
Microsoft Entra ID.
Remove a guest
When you're done collaborating with a guest, remove them so they no longer have access to
your organization.
1. In the Microsoft 365 admin center , expand Users and select Guest users .
2. On the Guest users page, choose the user you want to remove and then choose Delete a
user.
To remove users in the Microsoft Entra admin center, see remove a guest and resources.
Related content
Block guests from a specific group
Manage group membership in the Microsoft 365 admin center
Microsoft Entra access reviews
Update-MgUser

--- Page 203 of 2193 ---
Last updated on 04/22/2026

--- Page 204 of 2193 ---
Change a user name and email address
Summarize this article for me
This article describes how administrators can update a user's name and email address in
Microsoft 365. If you're a Microsoft 365 admin for your organization, you might need to
change someone's email address or display name if, for example, they change their name.
If you're a business user and you want to update your information in Microsoft 365, you might
need your administrator to make changes for you.
７ Note
If you're using a personal Microsoft account and you need to update your information,
see Get help with your Microsoft account .
Before you begin
You must have an appropriate role, such as user administrator to perform the tasks described
in this article.
Watch: Change a user's email address, display
name, or email alias
Check out this video and others on our YouTube channel . If you found this video helpful,
check out the complete training series for small businesses and people who are new to
Microsoft 365.
https://learn-video.azurefd.net/vod/player?id=7b58656a-67db-457a-aa90-
5c93334d4d28&locale=en-us&embedUrl=%2Fmicrosoft-365%2Fadmin%2Fadd-
users%2Fchange-a-user-name-and-email-address
1. In the Microsoft 365 admin center , select Users > Active users.
2. Select the user from the list of active users.
3. To change the user's email address or user name, select Manage username and email.
Select the edit icon, and then change the user's name or email address. Select Save
changes.

--- Page 205 of 2193 ---
4. To change the user's display name, select Manage contact information. Select the edit
icon, and then change the user's name or contact information. Select Save changes.
5. Close the user's panel.
Change a user's email address
You must be a user administrator.
1. In the Microsoft 365 admin center , go to the Users > Active users page.
1. Select the user's name. On the Account tab, select Manage username and email.
2. In the Username, edit the information. Then, make sure the correct domain is selected in
the Domains box. If you need to add a domain, see Add a domain to Microsoft 365.
3. Select Done.
） Important
If you get an error message, see Resolve error messages.
Change a user's display name
You must be a user administrator.
1. In the Microsoft 365 admin center , go to the Users > Active users page.
1. Select the user's name. On the Account tab, select Manage contact information.
2. Update the user's name and contact information, including their display name.
3. Select Save changes.
If you get the error message "We're sorry, the user couldn't be edited. Review the user
information and try again, see Resolve error messages.
Add an email alias
For more information on adding an email alias, see Add another email alias for a Microsoft 365
business subscription user.

--- Page 206 of 2193 ---
Resolve error messages
"A parameter cannot be found that matches parameter name
'EmailAddresses"
If you get the error message "A parameter cannot be found that matches parameter name
'EmailAddresses'", it means that it's taking a bit longer to finish setting up your tenant, or your
custom domain if you recently added one. The setup process can take up to four hours. Wait a
while so the setup process has time to finish, and then try again. If the problem persists,
contact support and ask them to do a full sync for you.
"We're sorry, the user couldn't be edited. Review the user
information and try again"
If you get the error message "We're sorry, the user couldn't be edited. Review the user
information and try again.", it means you aren't a member of the correct admin role and you
don't have permissions to change the user name.
What if the person's offline address book won't sync with the
Global Address List?
If they're using Exchange Online or if their account is linked with your organization's on-
premises Exchange environment, you might see this error when you try to change a username
and email address: "This user is synchronized with your local Active Directory. Some details can
be edited only through your local Active Directory."
This error is due to the Microsoft Online Email Routing Address (MOERA). The MOERA is
constructed from the person's userPrincipalName attribute in Active Directory and is
automatically assigned to the cloud account during the initial sync. Once created, you can't
modify or remove it in Microsoft 365. Later, you can change the username in the Active
Directory, but it doesn't change the MOERA and you might run into issues displaying the newly
changed name in the Global Address List.
To fix this issue, sign in to the Microsoft Graph PowerShell with your Microsoft 365
administrator credentials and use the following syntax:
PowerShell
Update-MgUser -UserId anne.wallace@contoso.com -UserPrincipalName
anne.jones@contoso.com

--- Page 207 of 2193 ---
 Tip
This change affects the person's userPrincipalName attribute and has no bearing on their
Microsoft Online Email Routing Address (MOERA) email address. It's a best practice,
however, to have the person's sign-in UPN match their primary SMTP address.
Related content
Add a domain Admins: Reset a password for one or more users Add another email address to a
user Create a shared mailbox Microsoft 365 small business help (YouTube)
Last updated on 03/06/2026

--- Page 208 of 2193 ---
Change user profile photos and settings
Check out Microsoft 365 small business help on YouTube.
This article explains how to manage profile photos and photo update settings on user accounts
and Microsoft 365 Groups.
Before you begin
You must be a Global Administrator to complete these steps.
） Important
Microsoft recommends that you use roles with the fewest permissions. Using lower
permissioned accounts helps improve security for your organization. Global Administrator
is a highly privileged role that should be limited to emergency scenarios when you can't
use an existing role.
Here are some points to keep in mind:
You can't remove existing user photos using the Microsoft 365 admin center. You can only
use Microsoft Graph PowerShell.
You can't manage user photos for Microsoft 365 Groups using the Microsoft 365 admin
center. You can only use Microsoft Graph PowerShell.
The maximum supported size of a photo is 4 MB.
User profile photo updates don't affect other user account properties. Configuration of
the environment where new updates can be performed doesn't affect existing user profile
photos in the cloud or in on-premises environments.
Use the Microsoft 365 admin center to change a
user's profile photo
1. In the Microsoft 365 admin center, go to Users > Active users .
2. On the Active users page, select the user by clicking on their display name. In the details
flyout that opens, select Change photo under their existing photo placeholder or photo
at the top of the flyout.

--- Page 209 of 2193 ---

3. In the Change photo flyout that opens, select Choose photo.
4. In the File upload dialog that opens, find and select the photo, and then select Open.
5. On the Change photo flyout, select Save changes, and then select Back to return to
the details flyout, or Close to return to the Active users page
 Tip
In the user details flyout or the Change photo flyout, you can download an existing photo
by right-clicking on the photo and selecting Save image as.
Manage user photos in Microsoft Graph
PowerShell
After you install the Microsoft Graph PowerShell SDK, use the Connect-MgGraph cmdlet to
sign in with the required scopes. You need to sign in with an admin account to consent to the
required scopes.
Users only:
PowerShell
Connect-MgGraph -Scopes "User.ReadWrite.All"
Microsoft 365 Groups only:
PowerShell
Connect-MgGraph -Scopes "Group.ReadWrite.All"
Users and Microsoft 365 groups:
PowerShell

--- Page 210 of 2193 ---
Connect-MgGraph -Scopes "User.ReadWrite.All","Group.ReadWrite.All"
Add user photos in Microsoft Graph PowerShell
Users:
PowerShell
Set-MgUserPhotoContent -UserId <UPN> -InFile "<PhotoPathAndFileName>"
For example:
PowerShell
Set-MgUserPhotoContent -UserId albertas@contoso.onmicrosoft.com -InFile
"C:\Upload\Alberta Sanchez.png"
For detailed syntax and parameter information, see Set-MgUserPhotoContent.
Microsoft 365 Groups:
PowerShell
Set-MgGroupPhotoContent -GroupId <ID> -InFile "<PhotoPathAndFileName>"
You get the ID GUID value of the Microsoft 365 Group from the output of a Get-
MgGroup command.
For example:
PowerShell
Set-MgGroupPhotoContent -GroupId 173cd812-5563-439c-9da4-bc2715fa2aee -InFile
"C:\Upload\Sales Department.png"
For detailed syntax and parameter information, see Set-MgGroupPhotoContent.
Get information about user photos in Microsoft Graph
PowerShell
The commands return the following information about the existing photo:
Id: The value is Default.
Height: In pixels.

--- Page 211 of 2193 ---
Width: In pixels.
If the user has no photo, the commands return the error: Exception of type
'Microsoft.Fast.Profile.Core.Exception.ImageNotFoundException' was thrown..
Users:
PowerShell
Get-MgUserPhoto -UserId <UPN>
For example:
PowerShell
Get-MgUserPhoto -UserId albertas@contoso.onmicrosoft.com
For detailed syntax and parameter information, see Get-MgUserPhoto.
Microsoft 365 Groups:
PowerShell
Get-MgGroupPhoto -GroupId <ID>
You get the ID GUID value of the Microsoft 365 Group from the output of a Get-
MgGroup command.
For example:
PowerShell
Get-MgGroupPhoto -GroupId 173cd812-5563-439c-9da4-bc2715fa2aee
For detailed syntax and parameter information, see Get-MgGroupPhoto.
Download user photos in Microsoft Graph PowerShell
Users:
PowerShell
Get-MgUserPhotoContent -UserId <UPN> -OutFile "<PhotoPathAndFileName>
For example:

--- Page 212 of 2193 ---
PowerShell
Get-MgUserPhotoContent -UserId albertas@contoso.onmicrosoft.com -OutFile
"C:\Download\Alberta Sanchez.png"
For detailed syntax and parameter information, see Get-MgUserPhotoContent.
Microsoft 365 Groups:
PowerShell
Get-MgGroupPhotoContent -GroupId <ID> -OutFile "<PhotoPathAndFileName>
You get the ID GUID value of the Microsoft 365 Group from the output of a Get-
MgGroup command.
For example:
PowerShell
Get-MgGroupPhotoContent -GroupId 173cd812-5563-439c-9da4-bc2715fa2aee -OutFile
"C:\Download\Sales Department.png"
For detailed syntax and parameter information, see Get-MgGroupPhotoContent.
Remove user photos in Microsoft Graph PowerShell
Users:
PowerShell
Remove-MgUserPhoto -UserId <UPN>
For example:
PowerShell
Remove-MgUserPhoto -UserId albertas@contoso.onmicrosoft.com
For detailed syntax and parameter information, see Remove-MgUserPhoto.
Microsoft 365 Groups:
PowerShell
Remove-MgGroupPhoto -GroupId <ID>

--- Page 213 of 2193 ---
You get the ID GUID value of the Microsoft 365 Group from the output of a Get-
MgGroup command.
For example:
PowerShell
Remove-MgGroupPhoto -GroupId 173cd812-5563-439c-9da4-bc2715fa2aee
For detailed syntax and parameter information, see Remove-MgGroupPhoto.
Configure photo update settings in your Microsoft
365 organization
Photo update settings in your organization include controlling the environment where user
profile photos can be updated and which roles are required.
） Important
When you change photo update settings, it can take up to 24 hours for the changes to
reflect throughout Microsoft 365. For example, if you block cloud user profile photo
updates, it can take up to 24 hours before the users are blocked from making updates.
Select where user profile photos can be edited using
Microsoft Graph
Currently, you can configure the photo update settings using Microsoft Graph only. For more
information, see Manage user profile photo settings in Microsoft 365 using Microsoft Graph.
Last updated on 12/11/2025

--- Page 214 of 2193 ---
Delete a user from your organization
Summarize this article for me
If someone leaves your organization, or if you can't change a user's information, such as their
email address, you can delete a user account in Microsoft 365 and then set up a new account.
This article describes how to delete a user account and includes some important points to keep
in mind.
Looking for how to delete your own Microsoft 365 user account that you use at work or
school? Contact the technical support at your work or university to do these steps for you.
Before you begin
You need to be a user administrator for the business or school to delete user accounts.
You have 30 days to restore the account before the user's data is permanently deleted.
If you want to keep the user's OneDrive data, move it to a different location. You can even
move the data up to 30 days after deleting the account. See Get access to and back up a
former user's data. You don't need to move their SharePoint files; you'll still have access to
them.
If you want to keep the user's email, BEFORE you delete the account, move the email to a
different location. If you've already deleted the account: if it's been less than 30 days you
can restore it, then move the email data, then delete the account. See Get access to and
back up a former user's data.
If you have an Enterprise subscription like Office 365 Enterprise E3, you can preserve the
mailbox data of a deleted user account by turning it into an inactive mailbox. To learn
more, see Manage inactive mailboxes in Exchange Online.
Stop paying for their license, and choose what to
do with their email and OneDrive content
If you're a user administrator, SharePoint administrator and an Exchange online administrator,
when you delete a user you can give another user access to their email and choose what to do
with their OneDrive content.
Things to consider
Before you begin, think about what you want to do with the user's email and OneDrive content,
and whether you want to keep the license or stop paying for it.

--- Page 215 of 2193 ---
ﾉ Expand table
Item Description
Product You can remove the license from the user and remove it from your subscriptions to stop
licenses paying for that license. If you select this option, the license is removed automatically from
your subscriptions.
You can't remove the license if you bought it through a Partner or volume licensing. If
you're paying for an annual plan or if you're in the middle of a billing cycle, you won't be
able to remove the license from your subscription until your commitment is completed.
OneDrive If the user saved their files to OneDrive, you can give another user access to these files.
content
You need to move the files you want to keep within the retention period that is set for
OneDrive files. By default, the retention period is 30 days. If you don't move the files within
the retention period after deleting the user, the OneDrive for the deleted user is moved to
the site collection recycle bin, where it's kept for 93 days. During this time, users will no
longer be able to access any shared content in the OneDrive. To restore the OneDrive, you
need to use PowerShell. For info, see Restore a deleted OneDrive.
To increase the number of days that you retain OneDrive files for deleted accounts, see Set
the OneDrive retention for deleted users.
Important! If the deleted user used a personal computer to download files from SharePoint
and OneDrive, there's no way for you to wipe those files they stored on their computer.
They'll continue to have access to any files that were synced from OneDrive.
Email Giving another user access to the deleted user's email converts the deleted user's mailbox to
a shared mailbox. The new mailbox owner can then access the mailbox and monitor for new
email. You have the following options:
Change the display name - We recommend changing the display name so that it is easy to
identify the shared mailbox in the Active users list.
Turn on automatic replies - A polite automatic reply already exists for you. You can send
different automatic replies to people within your organization and people from outside your
organization.
Remove any existing calendar permissions using PowerShell.
Clean up aliases - Aliases are other email addresses for users. Some organizations don't use
them, so if you don't have any you don't need to do anything else here. If the user does
have aliases, we recommend removing them so that you can reuse those email addresses.
Otherwise, you can't reuse those email addresses until the retention period for deleted
mailboxes has passed. By default, a deleted mailbox is recoverable for 30 days. For more
information, see Delete or restore user mailboxes in Exchange Online.
Active If your business uses Active Directory that's synchronizing with Microsoft Entra ID, you need
Directory to delete the user account from Active Directory. You can't do it through Microsoft 365. For

--- Page 216 of 2193 ---
Item Description
instructions, see Delete a User Account.
Delete a user account
Since the guided experience walks through the steps to delete a user, here's how to get
started.
1. In the Microsoft 365 admin center, go to Users > Active users. (Or, go directly to the
Active users page .)
2. Select the user that you want to delete to open their account details. The following
screenshot shows details for a fictitious user account called "User Two":

3. On the Delete user page, select what you want to do with the user's license and email
and OneDrive accounts. The following screenshot shows options for our example User
Two:

--- Page 217 of 2193 ---

4. Select Delete user.
User management admin: Delete one or more
users from Microsoft 365
） Important
Don't delete a user's account if you've converted it to a shared mailbox or if you've set up
email forwarding on the account. Those functions still need the account. A shared mailbox
doesn't require a license. If you've converted the account to a shared mailbox you can
Stop paying for the license. If you've set up email forwarding on the account, you can't
remove the license. Doing so will stop email forwarding and deactivate the mailbox.
1. In the Microsoft 365 admin center, go to Users > Active users. (Or go directly to the
Active users page .)
2. Select the names of the users that you want to delete, select the three dots (more
actions), and then choose Delete user.
Although you deleted the user's account, you're still paying for the license. See the next
procedure to stop paying for the license. Or, you can assign the license to another user. It
won't be assigned to someone automatically.

--- Page 218 of 2193 ---
Stop paying for the license
Reducing the number of licenses is a separate step that can be performed by the billing admin.
1. In the Microsoft 365 admin center, go to Billing > Your products. (Or, go directly to the
Your products page .)
2. On the Products tab, select the subscription that you want to remove licenses for.
3. On the subscription details page, select Remove licenses.
4. In the Remove licenses pane, under New quantity, in the Total licenses box, enter the
total number of licenses that you want for this subscription. For example, if you have 100
licenses and you want to remove five of them, enter 95.
5. Select Save.
Later when you go through the steps to add another person to your business, you'll be
prompted to buy a license at the same time, with just one step!
Delete many users at the same time
See the Remove-MgUser PowerShell cmdlet.
Fix issues with deleting a user
Here are the most common issues people encounter when deleting a user:
You get an error message along the lines of "User cannot be deleted. Please try again
later." Double-check whether the account has email forwarding set up on it, or it's been
converted to a shared mailbox. Both of these will cause that error. Don't delete the
account if it has email forwarding or it's been converted to a shared mailbox.
You don't have the appropriate permissions to delete a user. People who are user
management admins can delete users. Usually this is the technical support in your school
or business.
You delete the user but their name continues appear in your global address book. This
happens when a business is using Active Directory. You must delete the users account
from Active Directory. For instructions, see Delete a User Account..
Do you want to delete Microsoft 365 from your computer? Go to Cancel your subscription.

--- Page 219 of 2193 ---
Related content
Restore a user
Permanently delete a mailbox
Remove a former employee from Microsoft 365
Delete a User Account (article): Use these instructions if your business uses Active
Directory that is synchronizing with Microsoft Entra ID. You can't do it through Microsoft
365.
Get support for Microsoft 365 for business
Last updated on 02/19/2026

--- Page 220 of 2193 ---
Restore a user in the Microsoft 365 admin
center
When you restore a user account within 30 days of deleting it, the account and all associated
data are restored. The user can sign in with their same work or school account. Their mailbox is
fully restored.
To find out how much time remains to restore a specific user account, contact support.
 Tip
Make sure enough Microsoft 365 licenses are available to assign to the account.
If your business uses Active Directory on-premises, see How to restore deleted user
accounts in Microsoft 365, Azure, and Intune.
Restore one or more user accounts
You must be a User Administrator to do these steps.
1. In the Microsoft 365 admin center , go to Users > Deleted users. (Or, go directly to the
Deleted users page .)
2. On the Deleted users page, select the name of the user you want to restore, and then
select Restore user. To restore multiple deleted accounts, select multiple users.
If you don't see the user account you're looking for on the Deleted users page, it might
be that too much time has elapsed since the user account was deleted. In this case, Get
support for Microsoft 365 for business.
3. Follow the prompts to set their password, and then select Restore.
4. If the user is successfully restored, select Print to print the user name and password
information, and then securely send it to the user.
If you encounter a user name conflict or proxy address conflict, see Restore a user that
has a user name conflict or Restore a user that has a proxy address conflict in this article.
5. After you restore the user, add a license if you want them to use Microsoft 365.
Make sure to notify the user that their password changed and follow up with them.

--- Page 221 of 2193 ---
Restore a user that has a user name conflict
A user name conflict occurs when you delete a user account, create a new account with the
same user name (for the same or a different user), and then try to restore the deleted account.
To resolve the conflict, replace the active user account with the one you're restoring, or assign a
different user name to the account you're restoring. Follow these steps:
1. In the Microsoft 365 admin center , go to Users > Deleted users. (Or, go directly to the
Deleted users page .)
2. On the Deleted users page, select the names of the users you want to restore, and then
select Restore user.
７ Note
If two or more user accounts fail to be restored, an error message tells you that the
restore operation failed for some users. View the log to see which users weren't
restored, and then restore the failed accounts one at a time.
3. Follow the prompts to set the password and select Restore.
4. If a message appears saying there's a problem restoring the account, take one of the
following steps:
Cancel the restore and rename the current active user. Then try the restore again.
Type a new primary email address for the user and select Restore.
5. Review the results, and then select Close.
Restore a user that has a proxy address conflict
A proxy address conflict occurs when you delete a user account that contains a proxy address,
assign the same proxy address to another account, and then try to restore the deleted account.
Follow these steps to fix this issue.
You must have the User Administrator role assigned to perform this procedure.
1. In the Microsoft 365 admin center , go to Users > Deleted users. (Or, go directly to the
Deleted users page .)
2. On the Deleted users page, select the user you want to restore, and then select Restore
user.

--- Page 222 of 2193 ---
3. On the Restore page, follow the prompts to set the password and select Restore. Any
conflicting proxy addresses are automatically removed from the user you're restoring.
4. Review the results, and then select Close.
Related content
Delete a user
Assign administrator roles
Assign licenses to users
Troubleshooting: How to restore deleted user accounts in Microsoft 365, Azure, and
Intune
Least privileged roles by task in Microsoft Entra ID
Last updated on 01/06/2026

--- Page 223 of 2193 ---
Create and use a template to add users
You can create and use a template to save time and standardize settings when you're adding
multiple users. Templates are useful if you have users who share many common properties, like
for users who have the same role and work at the same location, and users who require the same
software. For example, you might have a team of support engineers who work in the same office.
Create a template
1. In the Microsoft 365 admin center , select Users > Active users > User templates.
2. Select Add a template from the drop-down list. Or, add a new user, and when you're
finished, you can save that entry as a template.
When you create a template after adding a user, the values you choose for the following settings
are saved in the template:
Domain name
Password settings choice: you can choose to create passwords or have them autogenerated
One-time password choice: you can require the user to create a new password after first
sign in
License location
License choices
Application choices
Role
Most profile information, such as Job profile, Department, Office, Office phone, and Street
address
The following information is user-specific and isn't saved in the template:
First and last name
Display name
User name
Choice to send the password in email and who the password email is sent to
Mobile phone number
If you choose not to enter information for a setting within a section, that value is blank and that
setting doesn't display in the template. For example, if you leave Job title blank, when you review

--- Page 224 of 2193 ---
your template and when you use your template, Job title doesn't appear at all. If you leave all the
Profile section settings blank, the Profile section displays None provided in your final template.
When you create a template by selecting the Add a template option, you can choose which
values to complete. Anything that is left blank appears as None provided in the template.
Use a template to add a user
To use an existing template to add a user:
1. In the Microsoft 365 admin center , select Users > Active users.
2. Select User templates, and then select a template from the drop-down list. (The list contains
only the templates that you created, not templates that were created by other admins.)
７ Note
You can also use a template to add a user by selecting User templates > Manage
templates, selecting a template, and then selecting Use template.
3. Follow the steps to create a user from the template you selected.
７ Note
If you have insufficient licenses available for a user that you add, and your payment
information is available, Microsoft attempts to purchase another license using your
existing payment information. If your payment information is unavailable, the user is
created as an unlicensed user.
Manage templates
You can only delete templates you no longer need and add new ones. To delete a template:
1. In the Microsoft 365 admin center , select Users > Active users.
2. Select Templates, and then select Manage templates from the drop-down list.
3. A list of templates appears. You can delete a template by taking any of the following
actions:

--- Page 225 of 2193 ---
Select one or more templates, and then select Delete.
Select the three dots to the right of the template name, and then select Delete.
Select the template name. When the template details appear on the right side of your
screen, select Delete template.
Related articles
Add users and assign licenses at the same time
Remove a former employee from Microsoft 365
Last updated on 04/23/2026

--- Page 226 of 2193 ---
Upgrade your Microsoft 365 for business
users to the latest apps
Article • 04/08/2025
Get ready to upgrade to Microsoft 365
As an admin, you control what version of the Microsoft 365 productivity apps people in your
organization can install. We highly recommend that you help users in your organization
running older versions such as Office 2013 or Office 2016 upgrade to the latest version of the
apps in Microsoft 365 to take advantage of security and productivity improvements.
Is this the right topic for you?
If you're the admin responsible for the Microsoft 365 for business subscription in your
organization, you're in the right place. Admins are typically responsible for tasks like managing
users, resetting passwords, managing Office installs and adding or removing licenses.
If you're not an admin and you have a Microsoft 365 Family subscription, see How do I
upgrade Office for information about upgrading your older, home use version of Office.
Upgrade steps
The steps below will guide you through the process of upgrading your users to the latest
Microsoft 365 desktop apps. We recommend you read through these steps before beginning
the upgrade process.
Step 1 - Check system requirements
Check the system requirements to make sure your devices are compatible with the latest
version of Office. For example, newer versions of the apps in Microsoft 365 can't be installed on
computers running Windows XP or Windows Vista.
 Tip
If you have users in your organization running older versions of Windows on their PCs or
laptops, we recommend upgrading to the latest version of Windows. Windows 7 has
reached end of support. Read Support for Windows 7 ends in January 2020 for more
info.

--- Page 227 of 2193 ---
Check out the Windows 11 system requirements to see if you can upgrade their operating
systems.
Check application compatibility
To ensure a successful upgrade, we recommend identifying your applications--including VBA
scripts, macros, third-party add-ins, and complex documents and spreadsheets--and assessing
their compatibility with the latest version of Microsoft 365.
For example, if you're using third-party add-ins with your current install, contact the
manufacture to make sure they're compatible with the latest version of Microsoft 365.
Step 2 - Check your existing subscription plan
Some Microsoft 365 plans don't include the full desktop versions of the apps and the steps to
upgrade are different if your plan doesn't include desktop version of the apps.
Not sure which subscription plan you have? See What Microsoft 365 for business subscription
do I have?
If your existing plan includes the Microsoft 365 apps, move on to Step 3 - Uninstall Office.
If your existing plan doesn't include the Microsoft 365 apps, then select from the options
below:
Upgrade options for plans that don't include the apps in
Microsoft 365
Option 1: Switch subscriptions
Switch to a subscription that includes the Microsoft 365 productivity apps. See Switch to a
different Microsoft 365 for business plan.
Option 2: Buy individual, one-time purchases of Office, or buy Office through a volume
license
Buy an individual, one-time purchase of Microsoft 365. See Microsoft 365 Family &
Business
OR
Buy multiple copies of Office through a volume license. See, Compare suites available
through volume licensing .

--- Page 228 of 2193 ---
Step 3 - Uninstall Office
Before installing the latest version of Microsoft 365, we recommend you uninstall all older
versions of the Office app. However, if you change your mind about upgrading, note the
following instances where you won't be able to reinstall the Office app after uninstalling it.
We recommend if you have third-party add-ins, contact the manufacturer to see if there's an
update that will work with the latest version of Microsoft 365.
 Tip
If you run into issues while uninstalling, you can use the Microsoft Support and Recovery
Assistant tool to help you remove Office: Download and run the Microsoft Support and
Recovery Assistant .
Select the version of Office you want to uninstall
From a PC
From a Mac
Known issues trying to reinstall older versions of after an
uninstall
Office through a volume license If you no longer have access to the source files of these
volume license versions, you won't be able to reinstall it.
Office pre-installed on your computer If you no longer have a disk or product key, you won't
be able to reinstall it.
Non-supported subscriptions If your copy was obtained through discontinued subscriptions,
such as Office 365 Small Business Premium or Office 365 Mid-size Business, you won't be able
to install an older version unless you have the product key that came with your subscription.
If you'd prefer to install your older version side-by-side with the latest version, you can see a
list of versions where this is supported in, Install and use different versions of Office on the
same PC . A side-by-side installation might be the right choice for you, if for example, you've
installed third-party add-ins you're using with your older version and you're not yet sure
they're compatible with the latest version.
Step 4 - Assign licenses to users

--- Page 229 of 2193 ---
If you haven't already done so, assign licenses to any users in your organization who need to
install the latest version of Microsoft 365. See Assign licenses to users in Microsoft 365 for
business.
Step 5 - Install Microsoft 365 apps
After you've verified the users you want to upgrade all have licenses, the final step is to have
them install the apps in Microsoft 365. See Download and install or reinstall Microsoft 365 or
Office 2021 on a PC or Mac .
 Tip
If you don't want your users installing Office themselves, see Manage Microsoft 365
installation options in the Microsoft 365 admin center. You can use the Deployment Tool
to download apps to your local network and then deploy using the software deployment
method you typically use.
Office 2010 reaches end-of-support
Office 2010 reached its end of support on October 13, 2020. Microsoft will no longer provide
the following:
Technical support for issues
Bug fixes for issues that are discovered
Security fixes for vulnerabilities that are discovered
See Office 2010 end of support roadmap for more information.

--- Page 230 of 2193 ---
Overview: Remove a former employee and
secure data
If an employee leaves your organization, you might be wondering what you should do to
secure data and prevent unauthorized access. This article series explains how to block access to
Microsoft 365 so former employees can't sign in to your organization's Microsoft 365
subscription, the steps you should take to secure your organization's data, and how to allow
other employees to access a former employee's email and OneDrive content.
Before you begin
To complete the steps in this series, you use these Microsoft 365 capabilities and features.
ﾉ Expand table
Product or component Capability or feature
Microsoft 365 admin center Convert mailbox, forward email, revoke access, or remove user
Exchange admin center Block user, block access to email, or wipe device
OneDrive and SharePoint Give access to other users
Outlook Import pst files, add mailbox
Active Directory Remove users in hybrid environments
Solution: Remove a former employee
ﾉ Expand table
Step Why do this step
Step 1: Prevent a former Prevent former employees from accessing your Microsoft 365
employee from signing in to your services and organization's data.

--- Page 231 of 2193 ---
Step Why do this step
organization's Microsoft 365
services
Step 2: Save the contents of a If someone is taking over the former employee's work, it's helpful for
former employee's mailbox them to access this information. Or, if there's a legal requirement or
important need to save the former employee's data, you want to
complete this step.
Step 3: Wipe and block a former Removes your organization's data from the former employee's phone
employee's mobile device or tablet.
Step 4: Forward a former You can keep the former employee's email address active in case you
employee's email to another have customers or partners sending email to the former employee's
employee or convert to a shared address. Setting up email forwarding makes sure messages get to the
mailbox next person taking over the work.
Step 5: Give another employee If you only remove a user's license but don't delete the account, the
access to OneDrive and Outlook content in the user's OneDrive remains accessible to you even after
data 30 days.
Before you delete the account, consider granting access of the
former employee's OneDrive and Outlook content to another user.
After you delete an employee's account, the content in their
OneDrive and Outlook is retained for 30 days. During that 30 days,
you can restore the user's account, and gain access to their content.
If you restore a user's account, their OneDrive and Outlook content
remains accessible to you, even after 30 days.
Step 6 - Remove and delete the When you remove a license, you can assign it to someone else. Or,
Microsoft 365 license from a you can delete the license if you don't need it.
former employee
When you remove or delete a license, the former employee's email,
contacts, and calendar are retained for 30 days, and are then deleted
permanently.
If you remove or delete a license but don't delete the account, the
content in the user's OneDrive remains accessible to you even after
30 days.
Step 7 - Delete a former Deleting a former employee's account stops email messages sent to
employee's user account that account from being received.
Watch: Delete a user overview
Check out this video and others on our YouTube channel .

--- Page 232 of 2193 ---
https://learn-video.azurefd.net/vod/player?id=f1196f82-611c-41c8-8cc1-
98e70f591d5d&locale=en-us&embedUrl=%2Fmicrosoft-365%2Fadmin%2Fadd-
users%2Fremove-former-employee
Does your organization use Active Directory?
If your organization synchronizes user accounts to Microsoft 365 from a local Active Directory
environment, you must delete and restore those user accounts in your local Active Directory
service. You can't delete or restore them in Microsoft 365.
To delete and restore a user account in Active Directory (on premises), see Delete a User
Account.
If you're using Microsoft Entra ID, see the Remove-MgUser PowerShell cmdlet.
Related content
Restore a user
Assign or unassign licenses for users in the Microsoft 365 admin center
Remove-CalendarEvents
Microsoft 365 small business help (on YouTube)
Last updated on 01/05/2026

--- Page 233 of 2193 ---
Step 1 - Prevent user sign-in and block
access to Microsoft 365
When an employee leaves your organization, the first step to preventing unauthorized access is
to reset their password. You can also force the user account to be signed out from your
Microsoft 365 services. If you think the account might be compromised, make sure to block
signing in so that no one can use those credentials.
Prerequisites
To complete this action for standard users, you must have an appropriate role assigned, such
as User Administrator or Helpdesk Administrator role.
To sign out other administrators, you need to be a Global Administrator.
） Important
Use roles with the fewest permissions. Lower permissioned accounts help improve security
for your organization. Global Administrator is a highly privileged role. Limit its use to
emergency scenarios when you can't use an existing role. For more information, see
About admin roles in the Microsoft 365 admin center.
Reset password and sign out of all sessions
1. In the Microsoft 365 admin center , go to Users > Active users. (Or, go directly to the
Active users page .)
2. Select the user's name, then select Reset password.
3. Choose whether to automatically create a new password and whether to require the user
to change their password when they first sign in.
4. Select Reset password. You can print the new password if you want. Then select Close.
5. Select the user's name again, and on the Account tab, select Sign out of all sessions.
Within an hour, or after the user leaves the current Microsoft 365 page they're on, they're
prompted to sign in again. An access token is good for an hour, so the timeline depends on
how much time is left on that token, and whether they leave the current webpage.
） Important

--- Page 234 of 2193 ---
If the user is using their mailbox in Outlook on the web, they might not be signed out
immediately. As soon as they select a different tile, such as OneDrive, or refresh their
browser, the service signs them out.
To use PowerShell to sign out a user immediately, see the Revoke-MgUserSignInSession
cmdlet.
For more information about how long it takes to get someone out of email, see What you need
to know about ending an user's email session.
Block a user's access to Microsoft 365 services
） Important
Blocking an account can take up to 24 hours to take effect. To immediately prevent a
user's sign-in access, follow the previous steps to reset their password.
1. In the Microsoft 365 admin center , go to Users > Active users. (Or, go directly to the
Active users page .)
2. Select the name of the user that you want to block, and select Block sign-in.
3. On the Block sign-in page, select Block this user from signing in, and then Save
changes.
Block a user's access to email in Exchange Online
If you have email as part of your Microsoft 365 subscription, you can use the Exchange admin
center to block a user from accessing their email. See Manage user mailboxes in Exchange
Online.
1. In the Exchange admin center , go to Recipients > Mailboxes. (Or, go directly to the
Mailboxes page .)
2. Select a user's mailbox.
3. Under Email apps & mobile devices, select Manage email apps settings.
4. On the Manage email apps settings page, turn Off the slider for all the options:
Outlook desktop (MAPI)
Exchange web services

--- Page 235 of 2193 ---
Mobile (Exchange ActiveSync)
IMAP
POP3
Outlook on the web
5. Select Save.
Related content
Exchange admin center in Exchange Online
Restore a user
Last updated on 01/05/2026

--- Page 236 of 2193 ---
Step 2 - Save the contents of a former
employee's mailbox
Summarize this article for me
If a former employee is subject to a litigation hold or in-place hold, you can export their
Outlook content to a .pst file.
You must have appropriate permissions through a role, such as Microsoft 365 Backup
Administrator or User Administrator to perform the tasks in this article.
Place hold or export user's data to a .pst file
If a former employee is blocked from signing into your organization's Microsoft 365
subscription, and it's important that you don't lose their data, you can save the contents of the
former employee's mailbox. There are two ways you can save the contents of the former
employee's mailbox.
Place a litigation hold or an in-place hold on the mailbox before the deleting the user
account. This is much more complicated than the other option, but is worth doing if your
Enterprise plan includes archiving and legal hold, litigation is a possibility, and you have a
technically strong IT department.
After you convert the mailbox to an inactive mailbox, administrators, compliance officers,
or records managers can use In-Place eDiscovery tools in Exchange Online to access and
search the contents.
Inactive mailboxes can't receive email and aren't displayed in your organization's shared
address book or other lists.
To learn how to place a hold on a mailbox, see Manage inactive mailboxes in Exchange
Online.
OR
Add the former employee's email address to your version of Outlook (desktop app), and
then export the data to a .pst file. You can import the data to another email account as
needed.
See the following articles:
Step 4 - Give another employee access to OneDrive and Outlook data

--- Page 237 of 2193 ---
Export emails, contacts, and calendar items to Outlook using a .pst file
Related content
Exchange admin center in Exchange Online
Restore a user
Security and compliance for Exchange Online
Export search results in eDiscovery
Export emails, contacts, and calendar items to Outlook using a .pst file
Last updated on 03/06/2026

--- Page 238 of 2193 ---
Step 3 - Wipe and block a former
employee's mobile device
If an employee has left your organization and they had a business phone, you can use the
Exchange admin center to wipe and block that device. This action helps ensure that your
business data is removed from the device and it can no longer connect to your organization's
Microsoft 365 subscription.
If your organization uses Basic Mobility and Security to manage mobile devices, you can wipe
and block those devices using Basic Mobility and Security.
７ Note
You must have appropriate permissions through a an appropriate role, such as the
Directory Writers role to perform the tasks in this article.
Wipe mobile device using the Exchange admin
center
1. In the Exchange admin center , go to > Recipients > Mailboxes. (Or, go directly to the
Mailboxes page .)
2. Select the user, and under Email apps & mobile devices, select Manage mobile devices.
3. On the Mobile Device Details page, under Mobile devices, select a device. Then select an
option, such as Account Only Remote Wipe Device, and then select Block access. See
Perform a remote wipe on a mobile phone in Exchange Online.
4. Save your changes.
Related content
Exchange admin center in Exchange Online
Perform a remote wipe on a mobile phone in Exchange Online
Last updated on 01/05/2026

--- Page 239 of 2193 ---
Step 4 - Forward a former employee's email
to another employee or convert to a shared
mailbox
If an employee leaves your organization, and you don't want to lose existing email or calendar
information, you can either assign the former employee's email address to another employee,
or convert the former employee's mailbox to a shared mailbox.
７ Note
You must have appropriate permissions through a role, such as Microsoft 365 Backup
Administrator or User Administrator to perform the tasks in this article.
Convert former employee's mailbox to a shared
mailbox
When you convert a user's mailbox to a shared mailbox, all of the existing email and calendar
are retained in a shared mailbox that several people can acess. You can convert a shared
mailbox back to an individual user's private mailbox later if needed.
Creating a shared mailbox can be a less expensive way to go because you don't have to
pay for a license as long as the mailbox is smaller than 50 GB. If it is over 50 GB, you
need to assign a license to it.
If you convert the mailbox to a shared mailbox, all the old email is available, too. This
configuration can take up a lot of space.
If you set up email forwarding, only new emails sent to the former employee's email
address are sent to the current employee.
Follow these steps to convert the user's mailbox to a shared mailbox.
Forward a former employee's email to another
employee
） Important
If you're setting up email forwarding or a shared mailbox, don't delete the former
employee's account. The account needs to be there to anchor the email forwarding or

--- Page 240 of 2193 ---
shared mailbox.
1. In the Microsoft 365 admin center , go to Users > Active users. (Or, go directly to the
Active users page .)
2. Select the name of the former employee, and then select the Mail tab.
3. Under Email Forwarding, select Manage email forwarding.
4. Select Forward all emails sent to this mailbox. In the Forwarding email address box,
type the email address of the current employee who's going to get the email. Choose
whether to keep a copy of the forwarded email in the former employee's mailbox.
5. Select Save changes. Remember not to delete the former employee's account.
） Important
In scenarios where the mailbox is inactive due to compliance reasons, mail forwarding or
converting the mailbox to a shared mailbox doesn't work.
Cancel Outlook meetings
Make sure to cancel all meetings that the former user had on their calendar. This lets people
remove the meetings created by the former user.
If the person had meetings that booked equipment or rooms, they won't be available to be
booked until those meetings are canceled. Read Delete an appointment or a meeting for the
steps.
Related content
Open and use a shared mailbox in Outlook
Access another person's mailbox
Exchange admin center in Exchange Online
Manage another person's mail and calendar items
Last updated on 01/05/2026

--- Page 241 of 2193 ---
Step 5 - Give another employee access to
OneDrive and Outlook data
Summarize this article for me
When an employee leaves your organization, you can access their OneDrive and Outlook data,
back it up, and choose whether to grant access to that content to another employee.
７ Note
You must have appropriate permissions through a role, such as Microsoft 365 Backup
Administrator or User Administrator to perform the tasks in this article.
Access a former user's OneDrive documents
If you remove a user's license but don't delete the account, you can give yourself access to the
content in the user's OneDrive. If you delete the user's account, you have 30 days by default to
access the former user's OneDrive data. Learn how to set the OneDrive retention for deleted
users. If you don't restore a user account within this time, their OneDrive content is deleted.
Preserve a former user's OneDrive files
To preserve a former user's OneDrive files, first give yourself access to their OneDrive, and then
move the files you want to keep.
1. In the Microsoft 365 admin center , go to Users > Active users. (Or, go directly to the
Active users page .)
2. Select a user.
3. On the user properties page, select OneDrive. Under Get access to files, select Create link
to files.
4. Select the link to open the file location. Download the files to your computer, or select
Move to or Copy to to move or copy them to your own OneDrive or to a shared library.
７ Note
When you move or copy documents that have version history, only the latest version
is moved.

--- Page 242 of 2193 ---
Administrative options for an active user under the OneDrive tab in the Microsoft
365 admin center are currently not supported for multi-geo tenants.
Grant access to a former user's OneDrive files to
another user
You can also grant access to another user to access a former employee's OneDrive.
1. Sign in to the Microsoft 365 admin center as a SharePoint admin.
If you get a message that you don't have permission to access the admin center, then you
don't have administrator permissions in your organization.
2. In the navigation pane, select Admin centers > SharePoint. (You might need to select
Show all to see the list of admin centers.)
3. In the navigation pane, select More features. Then, under User profiles, select Open.
4. Under People, select Manage User Profiles.
5. In the Find profiles box, type the former employee's name, and then select Find.
6. Right-click the former employee's user account, and then choose Manage site collection
owners.
7. Add the new user to Site collection administrators and select OK. The user can now
access the former employee's OneDrive using their OneDrive URL.
Revoke admin access to a user's OneDrive
You can give yourself access to the content in a user's OneDrive, but you may want to remove
your access when you no longer need it.
1. Sign in to the Microsoft 365 admin center as a SharePoint admin.
If you get a message that you don't have permission to access the admin center, then you
don't have administrator permissions in your organization.
2. In the left pane, select Admin centers > SharePoint. (You might need to select Show all
to see the list of admin centers.)
3. In the navigation pane, select More features. Then, under User profiles, select Open.

--- Page 243 of 2193 ---
4. Under People, select Manage User Profiles.
5. In the Find profiles box, type the former employee's name, and then select Find.
6. Right-click the former employee's user account, and then choose Manage site collection
owners.
7. Remove the person who no longer needs access to the user's data, and then select OK.
Access the Outlook data of a former user
To save the email messages, calendar, tasks, and contacts of the former employee, export the
information to an Outlook Data File (.pst). For steps on exporting Outlook data, see Export
emails, contacts, and calendar items to a .pst file .
Give another user access to a former user's email
To give access to the email messages, calendar, tasks, and contacts of the former employee to
another employee, import the information to another employee's Outlook inbox. For steps on
exporting Outlook data, see Import email, contacts, and calendar from an Outlook .pst file .
７ Note
You can also convert the former user's mailbox to a shared mailbox or forward a former
employee's email to another employee.
Related content
Add and remove admins on a OneDrive account
Restore a deleted OneDrive
OneDrive retention and deletion
Share OneDrive files and folders
Last updated on 02/19/2026

--- Page 244 of 2193 ---
Step 6 - Remove and delete a Microsoft
365 for business license from a former
employee
If an employee leaves your organization, and you don't want to continue to pay for their
Microsoft 365 license, you can unassign that license and then delete it from your subscription.
You can reassign a license to another user if you don't want to delete it. This article describes
how to remove a license from a user and delete it.
Before you remove a license, you must remove all holds for the user. For more information
about holds, see Remove an In-Place Hold in Exchange Online.
If the mailbox needs to be accessed by authorized people who have been granted eDiscovery
permissions for compliance or legal reasons, it must be assigned an Exchange Online Plan 2
license (or an Exchange Online Plan 1 license with an Exchange Online Archiving add-on
license) so that a hold can be applied to the mailbox before it's deleted. After the user account
is deleted, any Exchange Online license associated with the user account will be available to
assign to a new user.
When you remove a license, that user's data is held for 30 days. You can access the data, or
restore the account if need be.
After 30 days, the user's content (except for documents stored in SharePoint) is permanently
deleted from Microsoft 365 and can't be recovered.
７ Note
You must have appropriate permissions through a role, such as License Administrator or
User Administrator to perform the tasks in this article.
Remove licenses
1. In the Microsoft 365 admin center , go to Users > Active users. (Or go directly to the
Active users page .)
2. Select the name of the former employee, and then select the Licenses and Apps tab.
3. Clear the check boxes for the licenses you want to remove, and then select Save changes.
Reduce the number of licenses

--- Page 245 of 2193 ---
To reduce the number of licenses you're paying for until you hire another person, do the
following steps:
1. In the Microsoft 365 admin center , go to Billing > Your products. (Or, go directly to the
Your products page .)
2. Select the subscription from which you want to remove licenses.
3. On the subscription page, select Remove licenses.
4. In the Remove licenses pane, specify when the following information:
When the change could take effect
What the new total license quantity should be
5. Select Save.
How the deleted employee account affects their
PSTN number
When you remove a user's license from your Microsoft 365 subscription, and your organization
is using Public Switched Telephone Network (PSTN) connectivity, the PSTN calling number
associated with the former employee is released. You can then assign it to another user. See
Manage phone numbers for users.
If the user belongs to a queue group, they're no longer a viable target of the call queue agents.
We recommend removing that user from any groups that are associated with the call queue.
Set up call forwarding to people in your
organization
If you need to set up call forwarding for the terminated employee's phone number, the call
forwarding setting under calling policies can be set up forwarding. Incoming calls can be
forwarded to other users or can ring another person at the same time. For more information,
see Calling policies in Microsoft Teams.
Related content
Add users and assign licenses in Microsoft 365
Assign or unassign licenses for users in the Microsoft 365 admin center

--- Page 246 of 2193 ---
Teams calling overview
Enterprise user management (Microsoft Entra ID)
Last updated on 01/05/2026

--- Page 247 of 2193 ---
Step 7 - Delete a former employee's user
account
After an employee has left your organization, and you've saved and accessed their user data,
you can delete the former employee's account.
） Important
Don't delete the account if you've set up email forwarding or converted it to a shared
mailbox. Both need the account to anchor the forwarding or shared mailbox.
You must have appropriate permissions through a role, such as User Administrator to
perform the tasks in this article.
1. In the Microsoft 365 admin center , go to Users > Active users. (Or, go directly to the
Active users page .)
2. Select the name of the former employee's account that you want to delete.
3. Under the user's name, select Delete user. Choose the options you want for this user, and
then select Delete user. If you've already given another user access to this user's email
and OneDrive, you don't have to do it again here.
When you delete a user, the account becomes inactive for approximately 30 days. You have
until then to restore the account before it's permanently deleted.
Watch: Delete a former employee's user account
https://learn-video.azurefd.net/vod/player?id=f1196f82-611c-41c8-8cc1-
98e70f591d5d&locale=en-us&embedUrl=%2Fmicrosoft-365%2Fadmin%2Fadd-
users%2Fremove-former-employee-step-7
If you found this video helpful, check out the complete training series for small businesses and
those new to Microsoft 365.
Does your organization use Active Directory?
If your organization synchronizes user accounts to Microsoft 365 from a local Active Directory
environment, you must delete and restore those user accounts in your local Active Directory
service. You can't delete or restore the user in the Microsoft 365 admin center.

--- Page 248 of 2193 ---
To learn how to delete and restore user account in Active Directory, see Delete a User Account.
If you're using Microsoft Entra ID, see the Remove-MgUser PowerShell cmdlet.
What you need to know about terminating an
employee's email session
Here's information about how to get an employee out of email (Exchange).
ﾉ Expand table
What you can do How you do it
Terminate a session (such as Outlook on the web, Reset password
Outlook, Exchange active sync, etc.) and force to
open a new session
Terminate a session and block access to future Disable the account. For example, in the
sessions (for all protocols) Exchange admin center or using PowerShell:
Set-Mailbox user@contoso.com -
AccountDisabled:$true
Terminate the session for a particular protocol (such Disable the protocol. For example, in the
as ActiveSync) Exchange admin center or using PowerShell:
Set-CASMailbox user@contoso.com -
ActiveSyncEnabled:$false
The preceding operations can be done in three places:
ﾉ Expand table
If you terminate the session here How long it takes
In the Exchange admin center or using PowerShell Expected delay is within 30 min
In the Microsoft Entra admin center Expected delay is 60 min
In an on-premises environment Expected delay is 3 hours or more
How to get fastest response for account termination
Fastest: Use the Exchange admin center (use PowerShell) or Microsoft Entra admin center. In an
on-premises environment, it can take several hours to sync the change through Microsoft Entra
Connect.

--- Page 249 of 2193 ---
Fastest for a user with presence on-premises and in the Exchange Datacenter: Terminate the
session using Microsoft Entra admin center/Exchange admin center AND make the change in
the on-premises environment as well. Otherwise, the change in Microsoft Entra admin
center/Exchange admin center is overwritten by Microsoft Entra Connect.
Related content
Restore a user
Reset passwords
Microsoft Entra admin center
Exchange admin center
Exchange PowerShell
Last updated on 01/05/2026

--- Page 250 of 2193 ---
Microsoft 365 Groups overview for
administrators
Microsoft 365 Groups is the foundational membership service that underpins collaboration
across Microsoft 365. It simplifies access management by automatically granting users
permissions to shared resources when you add them to a group.
When you create a Microsoft 365 group, users can automatically access shared resources such
as:
Communication and planning
A shared Outlook inbox.
A shared calendar.
Planner.
Content and collaboration
A SharePoint document library.
A OneNote notebook.
Microsoft Clipchamp.
Team-based experiences
A Team (if created from Microsoft Teams).
Microsoft Viva Engage (if created from Microsoft Viva Engage).
Additional services
Power BI.
Roadmap (if Project for the web is available).
Microsoft 365 Groups roles and permissions
With a Microsoft 365 group, you don't need to manually assign permissions to individual
resources. When you add users to the group, you automatically grant them the appropriate
access.
Any user can create a group unless you limit group creation to a specific set of people. If you
limit group creation, users can't create the following items:
Microsoft SharePoint sites.
Planner.
Teams.
Outlook group calendars.
Clipchamp groups.

--- Page 251 of 2193 ---
Viva Engage groups.
Shared libraries in OneDrive.
Shared Microsoft Power BI workspaces.
These services require the creator to have permission to create Microsoft 365 groups. Users
can still participate in group activities, such as creating tasks in Planner or using Teams chat,
provided they're a member of the group.
Groups have the following roles:
Owners - Manage group membership and settings. Owners can add or remove members,
update the group name, description, or picture, and manage conversations in the shared
inbox.
Members - Access all group resources but can't change group settings. By default,
members can invite guests, although that setting can be changed. For more information,
see Manage guest access in Microsoft 365 groups.
Guests - External users who are invited to participate in the group.
User admins and groups admins can create and manage groups in the Microsoft 365 admin
center . Delegated administrators, such as consultants acting on behalf of an organization,
can't create or manage Microsoft 365 Groups.
As an administrator, you can:
Specify who can create groups.
Create a naming policy for groups in your organization.
Choose which domain to use when creating a group.
Manage guest access to groups.
Recover a deleted group (within 30 days of deletion).
Microsoft 365 Groups expiration and lifecycle
management
You can automate group cleanup by using expiration policies. When a group reaches its
expiration date:
Group owners receive renewal notifications 30 days, 15 days, and 1 day before expiration.
Owners can renew the group if the group is still needed.
Groups that aren't renewed are automatically deleted.
For more information, see Microsoft 365 group Expiration Policy.

--- Page 252 of 2193 ---
You can administer your groups from the Microsoft 365 admin center or by using PowerShell.
For more information, see Manage Microsoft 365 Groups with PowerShell.
If you have many users, such as in a large corporation or enterprise, you might have many
users who create groups for various purposes. Review Plan for governance in Microsoft 365
groups for best practices.
Microsoft 365 Groups limits and restrictions
The following limits apply to Microsoft 365 Groups:
ﾉ Expand table
Maximum... Value
Owners per group 100
Groups a user can 250
create
Groups an admin There are no Microsoft 365 group specific limits. There's an overall Microsoft Entra
can create object limit specific to each organization. A Microsoft Entra admin who can manage
groups in the organization can create an unlimited number of Microsoft 365 groups
up to the Microsoft Entra object limit. See Microsoft Entra service limits and
restrictions.
Number of More than 1,000. Only 1,000 members can access group conversations
members concurrently. Users might experience delays in Outlook for large groups.
Number of groups 7,000
a user can be an
owner of
Number of groups 7,000
a user can be a
member of
File storage 1 TB + 10 GB per subscribed user, plus any additional storage purchased. You can
purchase an unlimited amount of extra storage.
Group Mailbox 50 GB
size
Managing your Microsoft 365 groups is more effective when you have actionable information
about group usage. The Microsoft 365 admin center has a reporting tool that lets you see
storage use, how many active groups you have, and how users are using the groups. For more
information, see Microsoft 365 Reports in the admin center.

--- Page 253 of 2193 ---
Sensitivity labels for Microsoft 365 Groups
You can create sensitivity labels that the users in your organization can set when they create a
Microsoft 365 group. Sensitivity labels help enforce consistent security and access controls
during group creation. By using sensitivity labels, you can configure:
Privacy (public or private)
Guest access
Unmanaged device access
For example, you can create a label called Highly Confidential and specify that any group
created with this label is private and doesn't allow guests. When users in your organization
select this label during group creation, the group is set to private and group members aren't
allowed to add guests to the group.
For information about creating, managing, and using sensitivity labels, see Use sensitivity labels
to protect content in Microsoft Teams, Microsoft 365 groups, and SharePoint sites.
Microsoft 365 plans that include Microsoft 365
Groups
Any Microsoft 365 subscription that includes Exchange Online and SharePoint in Microsoft 365
supports groups. This support includes the Business Basic, Business Standard, and Business
Premium plans, as well as the Enterprise E1, E3, and Microsoft 365 E5 plans. The group adopts
the licensing of the person who creates it. As long as the creator has the proper license for the
features you want the group to have, that license extends to the group.
７ Note
For more information about Microsoft 365 service families and plans, see Microsoft 365
plan options.
If you have an Exchange-only plan, you can still get the shared inbox and shared calendar
features of groups in Outlook but you don't get the document library, Planner, or any of the
other capabilities.
Microsoft 365 groups work with Microsoft Entra ID. The groups features you get depend on
which Microsoft Entra ID subscription you have and what licenses are assigned to the person
who created the group.

--- Page 254 of 2193 ---
From an administrative perspective, creator's licenses and Microsoft Entra ID subscription
determine group capabilities. Licenses assigned to individual group members don't determine
group capabilities.
） Important
For all the groups features, if you have a Microsoft Entra ID P1 or Microsoft Entra ID P2
subscription, users can join the group whether or not they have a Microsoft Entra ID P1
license assigned to them. Licensing isn't enforced.
Periodically, Microsoft generates usage reports that tell you which users are missing a
license and need one assigned to them to be compliant with the licensing requirements.
For example, if a user doesn't have a license and they're added to a group where the
naming policy is enforced, the report flags that they need a license.
Related articles
Learn about Groups in Outlook .
Manage Microsoft 365 Groups with PowerShell.
SharePoint limits.
Plan for governance in Microsoft 365 groups.
Last updated on 03/16/2026

--- Page 255 of 2193 ---
Compare types of groups in Microsoft 365
In the Microsoft 365 admin center, in the Groups section, you can create and manage these
types of groups:
Microsoft 365 Groups that are used for collaboration between users, both inside and
outside your company. They include collaboration services such as SharePoint and
Planner. Microsoft Teams uses Microsoft 365 Groups for membership.
Distribution groups that are used for sending email notifications to a group of people.
Security groups that are used for granting access to resources such as SharePoint sites.
Mail-enabled security groups that are used for granting access to resources such as
SharePoint, and emailing notifications to those users.
Shared mailboxes that are used when multiple people need access to the same mailbox,
such as a company information or support email address.
Dynamic distribution groups that are created to expedite the mass sending of email
messages and other information within an organization.
Some groups allow dynamic membership or email, as listed in the following table:
ﾉ Expand table
Group type Mail enabled Dynamic membership
(In Microsoft Entra ID)
Microsoft 365 Groups Yes Yes
Distribution groups Yes No
Security groups No Yes
Mail-enabled security groups Yes No
Shared mailboxes Yes No
Dynamic distribution groups Yes No
Microsoft 365 groups can be used with Power Automate.
Microsoft 365 Groups
Microsoft 365 Groups are used for collaboration between users, both inside and outside your
company. With each Microsoft 365 group, members get a group email and shared workspace
for conversations, files, and calendar events, Stream, and a Planner. Microsoft 365 Groups can
also be connected to Teams or Viva Engage.

--- Page 256 of 2193 ---
You can add people from outside your organization to a group as long as this feature is
enabled by the administrator. You can also allow external senders to send email to the group
email address.
Microsoft 365 Groups can be configured for dynamic membership in Microsoft Entra ID,
allowing group members to be added or removed automatically based on user attributes such
as department, location, title, etc.
Microsoft 365 Groups can be accessed through mobile apps such as Outlook for iOS and
Outlook for Android.
Group members can send as or send on behalf of the group email address if this feature is
enabled by the administrator.
If recipients subscribe to receive group conversations in their inbox, they can delete email
messages from the group without removing those messages from the group's shared mailbox.
And, if an email is deleted from the group's shared mailbox, it isn't deleted from group
members' personal inbox. See Who can delete email from the Group inbox.
Microsoft 365 Groups support nesting through dynamic groups in Microsoft Entra ID.
Microsoft 365 Groups can be added to one of the three SharePoint groups (Owners, Members,
or Visitors) to give people permissions to the site.
Distribution groups
Distribution groups are used for sending notifications to a group of people. They can receive
external email if enabled by the administrator.
Distribution groups are best for situations where you need to broadcast information to a set
group of people, such as "People in Building A" or "Everyone at Contoso."
Distribution groups can be added to a team in Microsoft Teams, though only the members are
added and not the group itself.
Microsoft 365 Groups can't be members of distribution groups.
Dynamic distribution groups
Dynamic distribution groups are mail-enabled groups that are used to send mail to people
with specific attributes, such as department or location. These attributes are defined in the
Exchange admin center rather than Microsoft Entra ID.

--- Page 257 of 2193 ---
Unlike regular distribution groups that contain a defined set of members, the membership list
for dynamic distribution groups is determined each time a message is sent to the group, based
on the filters and conditions that you define. When an email message is sent to a dynamic
distribution group, it's delivered to all recipients in the organization that match the criteria
defined for that group.
Security groups
Security groups are used for granting access to Microsoft 365 resources, such as SharePoint
sites. They can make administration easier because you need only administer the group rather
than adding users to each resource individually.
Security groups can contain users or devices. Creating a security group for devices can be used
with mobile device management services, such as Microsoft Intune.
Security groups can be configured for dynamic membership in Microsoft Entra ID, allowing
group members or devices to be added or removed automatically based on user attributes
such as department, location, or title; or device attributes such as operating system version.
Security groups can be added to a team.
Microsoft 365 Groups can't be members of security groups.
Mail-enabled security groups
Mail-enabled security groups function the same as regular security groups, except that they
can't be dynamically managed through Microsoft Entra ID and can't contain devices.
They include the ability to send mail to all the members of the group.
Mail-enabled security groups can be added to a team.
Shared mailboxes
Shared mailboxes are used when multiple people need access to the same mailbox, such as a
company information or support email address, reception desk, or other function that might be
shared by multiple people.
Shared mailboxes can receive external emails if the administrator has enabled this feature.
Shared mailboxes include a calendar that can be used for collaboration.

--- Page 258 of 2193 ---
Users with permissions to the shared mailbox can send as or send on behalf of the mailbox
email address, if the administrator has given that user permissions to do that. This feature is
especially useful for help and support mailboxes, because users can send emails from mailbox
names like "Contoso Support" or "Building A Reception Desk."
It's not possible to migrate a shared mailbox to Microsoft 365 Groups.
Related content
Learn about Microsoft 365 Groups
Create a group in the Microsoft 365 admin center
Last updated on 02/02/2026

--- Page 259 of 2193 ---
Create a group in the Microsoft 365 admin
center
Article • 05/21/2025
While users can create a Microsoft 365 group from Outlook or other apps, as an admin, you
may need to create or delete groups, add or remove members, and customize how they work.
The Microsoft 365 admin center is the place to do this.
 Tip
Microsoft 365 connected Viva Engage groups must be created in Viva Engage, but can be
managed in the Microsoft 365 admin center like other Microsoft 365 groups. To learn
more, see Viva Engage and Microsoft 365 groups.
Create a Microsoft 365 group
1. In the admin center, expand Teams & groups, and then select Active teams & groups .
2. Select Add Microsoft 365 group.
3. On the Basics page, type a name for the group, and, optionally, a description. Select Next.
4. On the Owners page, choose the name of one or more people who will be designated to
manage the group. Anyone who is a group owner will be able to delete email from the
Group inbox. Other members won't be able to delete email from the Group inbox. Select
Next.
5. On the Members page, choose the name of one or more people who will be designated
as members of the group. Select Next.
6. On the Settings page, type a unique email address for the group, choose a privacy option
and whether you want to add Microsoft Teams, and then select Next.
７ Note
The email domain of the group can be changed after the group has been created.
8. After reviewing your settings and making any changes, select Create group.
9. Select Close.

--- Page 260 of 2193 ---
Add members to the group
Once the group has been created, you can add members and configure additional settings.
Users can add themselves or request approval , or you can add them now.
1. In the admin center, refresh the page so your new group appears, and then select the
name of the group that you want to add members to.
2. On the Membership tab, select Members.
3. Select Add members.
4. Select the users you want to add, and then select Save.
5. Select Close three times.
The group will appear in Outlook with members assigned to it.
Who can delete email from the Group inbox?
The Group owner can delete any emails from the Group Inbox, regardless of whether they were
the initial author.
A member can delete an email conversation from the Group inbox if they initiated it, and only
using Outlook on the web (right-click the email, then choose Delete). They can't do it from the
Outlook app (Outlook 2016).
When an email is deleted from the group mailbox, it is not deleted from any of the group
members' personal mailboxes.
Next steps
After creating a new group and adding members, you can further configure your group, such
as editing the group name or description, changing owners or members, and specifying
whether external senders can email the group and whether to send copies of group
conversations to members. See Manage a Microsoft 365 group for information.
Related content
Manage guest access to Microsoft 365 groups (article)
Choose the domain to use when creating Microsoft 365 groups (article)\

--- Page 261 of 2193 ---
Explaining Microsoft 365 Groups to your
users
Article • 05/21/2025
Microsoft 365 Groups allow you to set up a collection of resources to share, including a shared
mailbox and calendar, a SharePoint site with a OneNote notebook, and a Microsoft Planner
among others. Microsoft Teams can also be included when you create a group, or it can be
added later. Permissions groups resources are managed via the group.
Groups can be created by creating any of the shared resources. Creating a group in Outlook
yields the same result as creating a group-connected SharePoint team site or a plan in Planner.
If your users are new to Microsoft 365 Groups, they may not realize this. This can lead to
confusion for your users and the possibility of creating duplicate resources. (For examples,
someone might create a SharePoint site for document collaboration and later create a separate
instance of Planner, not realizing Planner was already available as part of the group.)
Because groups can be created in several ways, we recommend training your users to use the
method that fits your organization the best:
If your organization does most of its communication using email, instruct your users to
create groups in Outlook.
If your organization heavily uses SharePoint or is migrating from SharePoint on-premises,
instruct your users to create SharePoint team sites for collaboration.
If your organization has deployed Teams, instruct your users to create a team when they
need a collaboration space.
If you train your users to always use the group creation method that most aligns with their way
of working when they need a space to collaborate with others, you can help avoid confusion
and duplication of resources. As users become more experienced, they will understand better
the collection of services that come with a group and that different creation methods lead to
the same result.
You can use the Microsoft 365 Groups for Business User - PowerPoint template as a starting
point for training presentations for your users.
How to think about and organize groups
Your users can communicate most effectively with each other by understanding where and
when to use groups.
Inner loop - Teams

--- Page 262 of 2193 ---
Your inner loop includes people you work with regularly. With your inner loop, you'll need to
run effective meetings and projects. With Teams, you can leverage teams features like a
shared calendar, meetings, channels, and chats to coordinate with your closest collaborators.
Outer loop - Viva Engage
Your outer loop includes people that you connect with across your org, but don't necessarily
work closely with. With your outer loop, you'll need to inform and engage employees and
coworkers. Viva Engage provides public communities where you can share best practices, share
files, and crowdsource ideas.
Outlook, SharePoint, and Stream
Outlook - Use email groups to target communications to specific groups.
SharePoint - Use SharePoint sites to share and collaborate on content with specific groups.
Stream - Use Stream to share video and live events with specific groups.
Related topics
Learn about Microsoft 365 Groups

--- Page 263 of 2193 ---
Manage a group in the Microsoft 365
admin center
Article • 05/27/2025
After you have created a Microsoft 365 group and added group members, you can configure
your group. You can edit the group name or description, manage owners or members, and
specify whether external senders can email the group and whether to send copies of group
conversations to members.
Go to the Microsoft 365 admin center at https://admin.cloud.microsoft .
Edit the group name or description
1. In the admin center, expand Teams & groups, and then click Active teams & groups .
2. Select the group that you want to edit, and then click Edit name and description.
3. Update the name and description, and then select Save.
Change the email address or email domain of the
group
You can change the email address of a Microsoft 365 group or Microsoft Teams by using the
Microsoft 365 admin center. Just select the group and select @edit email address.
You can also use the following EXO PowerShell command to change the primary SMTP address
of a Microsoft 365 group/Teams:
PowerShell
Set-UnifiedGroup <Group Name> -PrimarySmtpAddress <new SMTP Address>
Example:
PowerShell
Set-UnifiedGroup Marketing -PrimarySmtpAddress marketing@contoso.com
Manage group owners and members

--- Page 264 of 2193 ---
1. In the admin center, expand Teams & groups, and then click Active teams & groups .
2. Click the name of the group you want to manage to open the settings pane.
3. On the Membership tab, choose if you want to manage Owners or Members.
4. Choose Add to add someone or click X to remove someone.
5. Click Close.
Send copies of conversations to group members'
inboxes
When you use the admin center to create a group, by default users do not get copies of group
emails sent to their inboxes though users get copies of group meeting invitations sent to their
inboxes. They'll need to go to the group to see conversations. You can change this setting in
the admin center.
When you turn this setting on, group members will get a copy of group emails and meeting
invitations sent to their Outlook Inbox. They can read and delete this copy of the email and not
affect anyone else. In the Group inbox, a copy of the email still exists.
Group members can opt out of receiving these emails by choosing to stop following the group
in Outlook.
1. In the admin center, expand Teams & groups, and then click Active teams & groups .
2. Click the name of the group you want to manage to open the settings pane.
3. On the Settings tab, select Send copies of group conversations and events to group
members if you want members to receive copies of group messages and calendar items
in their own inbox.
4. Select Save.
Let people outside the organization email the
group
This option is great if you want to have a company email address such as info@contoso.com.
1. In the admin center, expand Teams & groups, and then click Active teams & groups .
2. Click the name of the group you want to manage to open the settings pane.

--- Page 265 of 2193 ---
3. In the admin center groups list, select the name of the group you want to change, and
then on the Settings tab, select Let people outside the organization to email this group.
4. Select Save.
７ Note
It may take up to 30 minutes before users outside the organization can email the group.
Permanently delete a Microsoft 365 group
Sometimes you may want to permanently purge a group without waiting for the 30 day soft-
deletion period to expire. To do that, start PowerShell and run this command to get the object
ID of the group:
First, install Microsoft Graph PowerShell.
Then run the following command:
PowerShell
Connect-MgGraph -Scopes "Group.ReadWrite.All"
Then use this command to list deleted groups:
PowerShell
Get-MgDirectoryDeletedGroup
Note down the ID of group you are looking to permenantly delete and then run the following
command:
PowerShell
Remove-MgDirectoryDeletedItem -DirectoryObjectId <ID of the group to be
permenantly deleted>
To confirm that the group has been successfully purged, run the Get-MgDirectoryDeletedItem
cmdlet again to confirm that the group no longer appears on the list of soft-deleted groups. In
some cases it may take as long as 24 hours for the group and all of its data to be permanently
deleted.

--- Page 266 of 2193 ---
Related articles
Create a Microsoft 365 group
Manage guest access to Microsoft 365 Groups
Choose the domain to use when creating Microsoft 365 Groups
Allow members to send as or send on behalf of a Microsoft 365 group
Manage Microsoft 365 Groups with PowerShell

--- Page 267 of 2193 ---
Assign or unassign licenses to a group in the
Microsoft 365 admin center
If you have security groups, mail enabled groups, or Microsoft 365 groups, you can assign or
unassign licenses for those groups on the Licenses page in the Microsoft 365 admin center. We
refer to this as group-based licensing.
７ Note
Some Microsoft services aren't available in all locations. Before a license can be assigned to a
user, the administrator must specify the user's location setting. For group-based licensing,
any users without a specific location inherit the location of the tenant. If you have users in
multiple locations, we recommend that you always set the user location as part of your user
creation flow. For more information, see Add users and assign licenses in Microsoft 365.
Before you begin
You must be at least a Groups Administrator, License Administrator, or User Administrator
to assign licenses.
In addition to the steps described in this article, you can also use the Microsoft Graph
PowerShell SDK to assign or unassign Microsoft 365 licenses to groups. For more
information, see Set-MgGroupLicense.
Group-based licensing doesn't currently support nested groups (groups that contain other
groups). If you assign licenses to a nested group, only users in the first-level group are
assigned licenses.
When you assign or modify licenses for a large group, like 100,000 users, it can affect
performance. In certain high load situations, it might take a long time to process license
changes for groups or membership changes to groups with existing licenses.
Limitations of group-based licensing in the Microsoft
365 admin center
You can assign licenses to a maximum of 20 groups at a time.
When you select Reprocess to resolve issues with group license assignment, the feature
attempts to reprocess licenses up to a maximum of 20 users at a time.

--- Page 268 of 2193 ---
The lists of users who were and who weren't successfully assigned licenses are paginated
lists that display 999 users at a time. You must scroll to the bottom of the list to load the
next set of users.
Assign licenses to a group
1. Sign in to the Microsoft 365 admin center as at least a License Administrator.
2. Go to the Billing > Licenses page.
3. On the Licenses page, select Assign licenses.
4. In the side panel, search for the group that you want to assign licenses to, then select the
name from the dropdown list.
5. Select the subscription that the assigned licenses should come from.
6. To assign or remove access to specific items, select Turn apps and services on or off.
7. When you're finished, select Assign licenses.
Unassign licenses from a group
1. In the Microsoft 365 admin center , go to the Billing > Licenses page.
2. Select the product that you want to unassign licenses for.
3. On the product details page, find the group in the list.
4. Select the three dots (more actions) on the group's row, then select Unassign.
5. In the confirmation dialog, select Unassign.
Move users between licensed groups
When you move a user from one licensed group to another, the order of operations matters. If
you remove a user from a group before they're added to the new one, the user can experience a
brief loss of access to licensed services while group-based licensing finishes processing the new
assignment. However, this temporary loss of access is preventable. To move a user between
licensed groups without service interruption, use the following steps in this order:
1. Add the user to the destination group first.
2. Confirm the new license has been applied on the user's Licenses page.
3. Remove the user from the original group.
７ Note

--- Page 269 of 2193 ---
If you remove the user from the source group first, the user is unlicensed until group-
based licensing finishes processing the new group's assignment. Processing time varies
based on tenant size and current load, so the temporary loss of access can be longer
than expected in large tenants or during high-load periods.
Manage group-based licensing errors
If you receive any errors during license assignment, you can view them on the product details
page.
1. In the Microsoft 365 admin center , go to the Billing > Licenses page.
2. Select the product that you want to view licenses for.
3. Select the Errors & issues tab to see a list of users who have license assignment problems.
4. Select a user to inspect what type of error they encountered.
For a full description of each error type, including insufficient licenses, conflicting service plans,
missing dependencies, proxy address issues, and usage location problems, along with steps for
how to resolve them, see Identify and resolve license assignment problems for a group.
Related content
Assign or unassign licenses for users in the Microsoft 365 admin center (article)
Buy or remove licenses for a Microsoft business subscription (article)
Identify and resolve license assignment problems for a group (article)
Last updated on 05/18/2026

--- Page 270 of 2193 ---
Microsoft 365 group mailbox size
management
Article • 05/21/2025
Each Microsoft 365 group comes equipped with a dedicated mailbox that stores the emails
received on the group. The group mailbox is also used by applications like SharePoint Online,
Viva Engage, Teams etc. The group mailbox is equipped with initial storage quota of 50 GB. If
the group mailbox quota is reached, people sending emails to the group receive a non-delivery
report. Hence, it’s a good practice to remove the older content from group mailboxes, to
ensure the group mailbox doesn’t reach its quota.
The following ways help you understand how the quota calculation works, best practices or
proactive approach taken to ensure the group mailbox doesn't reach its quota. And the course
of action to be performed if the group mailbox as reached or exceeded its quota.
Proactive approach to keep group mailbox size in
check
You can create retention policies to ensure older email from groups are removed automatically
upon reaching the specified time limit. For more information, on steps to create retention
policy for Microsoft 365 Group, see Create and configure retention policies. The retention
policies take longer work cycle to clean up the data, hence must be applied during the creation
of a group mailbox. The retention policies can't be used as tool to immediately flush or remove
the data from a group mailbox.
To monitor the group mailbox size:
Use the following command to check the current quota assigned for the group mailbox:
PowerShell
Get-Mailbox -GroupMailbox <groupname> |ft
ProhibitSendReceiveQuota,ProhibitSendQuota,IssueWarningQuota
And use the following command to check the current size of the group mailbox:
PowerShell
Get-MailboxStatistics <groupname> | ft TotalDeletedItemSize,TotalItemSize

--- Page 271 of 2193 ---
Steps to follow when the group mailbox has
reached its limit:
As mentioned earlier, the group mailbox is used for various applications to store data. Once
the group mailbox as reached its quota, it's important to identify the folders occupying more
data and take the appropriate action.
Group owners can follow these steps to clean up the group mailbox and empty the space.
Or, you can use PowerShell:
1. Start with the following command to confirm that the group mailbox quota has exceeded:
PowerShell
Get-MailboxStatistics <groupname> |ft TotalItemSize,TotalDeletedItemSize
The group mailbox is distributed in various TargetQuota, namely System, Recoverable and
User. The folders matching TargetQuota “User” is the only one considered in the
calculation of the group quota.
2. Use the following command to verify the folder size that’s occupying User data:
PowerShell
Get-MailboxFolderStatistics <groupname> | where { $_.TargetQuota -like 'User'
} | ft Name,FolderPath,FolderType,FolderSize
Get-MailboxFolderStatistics <groupname> -FolderScope NonIPMRoot | where {
$_.TargetQuota -like 'User' } | ft Name,FolderType,*size*
3. Check the folders quota or size.
4. If the folder consuming the space is SharePointWebPartsConnectorMessages, as mentioned
in Use the Connector web part then do the following:
a. Disable the connector if not used.
b. Wait for the messages to be cleared by default in 90 days.
5. If there's no special folder occupying the group mailbox size, apply the group mailbox
retention policy, and wait for retention policy to clean up the emails from group mailbox.

--- Page 272 of 2193 ---
Add or remove members from Microsoft
365 groups using the admin center
Article • 05/21/2025
In Microsoft 365, group members typically create their own groups, add themselves to groups
they want to join, or are invited by group owners. If group ownership changes, or if you
determine that a member should be added or removed, as the admin you can also make that
change. Only an Exchange administrator, Groups administrator, or user administrator can make
these changes. What is a Microsoft 365 group?
 Tip
If you're not an admin, you can add or remove members using Outlook .
７ Note
Nesting of groups isn't supported with regard to Microsoft 365 Group, that is, you can't
add an existing Distribution List (DL) or Microsoft 365 Group as member of another
Microsoft 365 Group.
Add a member to a group in the admin center
1. In the admin center, go to the Active groups page.
2. Click a group name.
3. In the details pane, on the Membership tab, select Members, and then select Add
members.
4. Search for or select the name of the member you want to add.
5. Select Save.
Add a group to a member in the admin center
1. In the admin center, go to the Active users page.
2. Click a user.
3. In the details pane, on the Account tab, select Manage groups.

--- Page 273 of 2193 ---
4. Select Assign memberships and search for or select the name of the group you want to
add.
5. Select Save.
Remove a member from a group in the admin
center
７ Note
When you remove a member from a private group, it takes 5 minutes for the person to be
blocked from the group.
1. In the admin center, go to the Active groups page.
2. Click a group name.
3. In the details pane, on the Membership tab, select Members.
4. Next to the member you want to remove, select the X.
5. Select Save to remove the member.
Manage group owner status
By default, the person who created the group is the group owner. Often a group will have
multiple owners for backup support or other reasons. Members can be promoted to owner
status and owners can be demoted to member status.
Promote a member to owner status in the admin center
1. In the admin center, go to the Active groups page.
2. Click a group name.
3. In the details pane, on the Membership tab, select Owners.
4. Select Add owners.
5. Select the check box next to the name of the member you want to add.
6. Select Save, and then Close.

--- Page 274 of 2193 ---
Remove owner status in the admin center
1. In the admin center, go to the Active groups page.
2. Click a group name.
3. In the details pane, on the Membership tab, select Owners.
4. Select the X next to the owner's name.
5. Select Save.
Next steps
Manage groups dynamically in Microsoft Entra ID: see the section "How can I manage the
membership of a group dynamically?"
To add hundreds or thousands of users to groups, use the Add-UnifiedGroupLinks.
Assign a new owner to an orphaned group
Related content
Manage guest access in Microsoft 365 groups (article)
Manage Microsoft 365 groups with PowerShell: this article introduces you to key cmdlets and
provides examples (article)
Microsoft 365 groups naming policy (article)

--- Page 275 of 2193 ---
Restore a deleted Microsoft 365 group
Summarize this article for me
If you delete a group, by default, it's retained for 30 days. This 30-day period is considered a
"soft-delete" because you can still restore the group. After 30 days, the group and its
associated contents are permanently deleted and can't be restored.
When a group is restored, the following content is restored:
Microsoft Entra Microsoft 365 Groups object, properties, and members
Group's e-mail addresses
Exchange Online shared Inbox and calendar
SharePoint Online team site and files
OneNote notebook
Planner
Teams
Viva Engage group and group content (If the Microsoft 365 group was created from Viva
Engage)
Power BI Classic workspace
７ Note
This article describes how to restore Microsoft 365 groups only.
Restore a group
You can restore a group in Outlook, the Microsoft 365 admin center, or PowerShell.
Restore a group in Outlook
If you're the owner of a Microsoft 365 group, you can restore the group yourself in Outlook on
the web by following these steps:
1. In Outlook, on the deleted groups page , select the Manage groups option under the
Groups node, and then choose Deleted.
2. Select the Restore tab next to the group you want to restore.
If the deleted group doesn't appear here, contact an administrator.

--- Page 276 of 2193 ---
Restore a group in the Microsoft 365 admin center
If you're a groups administrator, you can restore a deleted group in the Microsoft 365 admin
center:
1. Go to the Microsoft 365 admin center and sign in.
2. Expand Groups, and then select Deleted groups.
3. Select the group that you want to restore, and then select Restore group.
７ Note
In some cases, it can take as long as 24 hours for the group and all of its data to be
restored.
Restore a group by using PowerShell
To use PowerShell to restore a deleted group, see Restore a deleted Microsoft 365 group or
cloud security group in Microsoft Entra ID.
Do you have questions about Microsoft 365
Groups?
Visit the Microsoft Tech Community to post questions and participate in conversations about
Microsoft 365 groups.
Related content
Restore deleted email conversations
Manage Microsoft 365 Groups with PowerShell
Delete groups using the Remove-UnifiedGroup cmdlet
Manage your group-connected team site settings
Delete a group in Outlook
Last updated on 02/25/2026

--- Page 277 of 2193 ---
Manage guest access in Microsoft
365 groups
By default, guest access for Microsoft 365 groups is turned on for your organization.
Administrators can control whether to allow guest access to groups for the whole organization or
for individual groups.
When it's turned on, group members can invite guests to a Microsoft 365 group through Outlook
on the web. The group owner receives the invitations for approval.
Once approved, the guest is added to the directory and the group.
７ Note
Viva Engage Enterprise networks that are in Native Mode or within the EU Geo don't support
network guests. Microsoft 365 Connected Viva Engage groups don't currently support guest
access, but you can create nonconnected, external groups in your Viva Engage network. See
Create and manage external groups in Viva Engage for instructions.
Guest access in groups is often used as part of a broader scenario that includes SharePoint or
Teams. These services have their own guest sharing settings. For complete instructions for setting
up guest sharing across groups, SharePoint, and Teams, see:
Collaborate with guests in a site
Collaborate with guests in a team
Manage groups guest access
To enable or disable guest access in groups, use the Groups settings.
1. In the Microsoft 365 admin center , go to Show all > Settings > Org settings. On the
Services tab, select Microsoft 365 Groups.
2. On Microsoft 365 Groups, choose whether you want to let people outside your
organization access group resources or let group owners add people outside your
organization to groups.

--- Page 278 of 2193 ---
Add guests to a Microsoft 365 group in the
admin center
If the guest already exists in your directory, you can add them to your groups from the Microsoft
365 admin center . You must manage groups with dynamic membership in Microsoft Entra ID.
1. In the admin center, go to Teams & groups > Active teams & groups .
2. Select the group you want to add the guest to and select Membership > Members.
3. Select Add members and choose the name of the guest you want to add.
4. Select Save.
To add a guest to the directory directly, you can Add Microsoft Entra B2B collaboration users in
the Azure portal.
To edit any of a guest's information, you can Add or update a user's profile information using
Microsoft Entra ID.
Remove a guest
When you're done collaborating with a guest, remove them so they no longer have access to
your organization.
1. In the Microsoft 365 admin center , expand Users and select Guest users .
2. On the Guest users page, choose the user you want to remove and then choose Delete a
user.
To remove users in the Microsoft Entra admin center, see remove a guest and resources.
Related content
Block guests from a specific group
Manage group membership in the Microsoft 365 admin center
Microsoft Entra access reviews
Update-MgUser

--- Page 279 of 2193 ---
Last updated on 04/22/2026

--- Page 280 of 2193 ---
Manage ownerless Microsoft 365 groups
and teams
A team in Microsoft Teams or a Microsoft 365 group can become ownerless if you delete an
owner's account in Microsoft 365. Groups and teams need an owner to add or remove members
and change group settings.
This article explains how to handle ownerless Microsoft 365 groups in the Microsoft 365 admin
center.
How the ownerless group policy works
An Exchange administrator or Groups administrator can create a policy that automatically asks
the members who are the most active in the group if they accept ownership.
When a member accepts the invitation to become an owner, the action is logged in the Microsoft
Purview portal audit log.
If there's no group activity, the policy asks random group members to accept ownership.
Requirements of the ownerless group policy
To set up and manage the Microsoft 365 ownerless group policy, you need to meet one of the
following requirements:
An eligible Microsoft 365 subscription
Eligible plans include Microsoft 365 Business Premium, Microsoft 365 Enterprise E3 and
E5, Office 365 and Microsoft 365 Government G3 and G5, Microsoft 365 Education A3
and A5, and Frontline F1 and F3.
An Azure P1 or P2 premium plan
All notification options in the ownerless groups policy require an Azure premium plan
because a security group is used to specify which group members receive ownership
notifications. Security groups are a feature of Azure premium plans.
Limitations of the ownerless group policy

--- Page 281 of 2193 ---
Managing ownerless groups by using this policy has a few limitations. The following list explains
these limitations:
The ownerless group policy only applies to Microsoft 365 groups.
Not all SharePoint, Stream, and other apps' groups are Microsoft 365 groups. Viva
Engage groups are Microsoft 365 groups if the tenant is in Native mode.
You can't batch update the groups the policy targets.
You can only search for and add one Microsoft 365 group at a time to this policy.
Set up the ownerless group or team policy
1. In the Microsoft 365 admin center , expand Settings and select Org settings.
2. On the Services tab, select Microsoft 365 Groups.
3. Select the When there's no owner, email and ask active group members to become an
owner checkbox.
4. If you want to keep the default configuration settings, select Save.
Customize the ownerless group policy
1. On the Microsoft 365 Groups pane, select Configure policy.
2. On the Weekly notification options page, specify who can receive ownership notifications.
If you choose to allow or block certain members, search for and add the security group that
you want to use.
a. To limit who can be invited to be an owner by using a security group, you need a
Microsoft Azure P1 or P2 license for each Microsoft 365 group member in your
organization, but you don't need to assign it.
b. Type the number of active members that you want to notify, and select the number of
weeks to send the notification. The notification list is created during the first notification
and doesn't change.
c. Select Next.
3. On the Who is this email coming from page, select a sender for the email, and then select
Next.

--- Page 282 of 2193 ---
Shared mailboxes aren't supported. The sender must be either a user mailbox or a group
mailbox.
4. On the Subject and message page, customize the email and optionally include a policy
guideline URL, and then select Next.
You can't have the notification's language change based on the recipient's country or
region.
5. On the Select which groups to target page, select Specific groups, and choose the groups
and teams that you want to include in this policy, or select All groups.
You can select up to 50 groups.
6. Select Next.
7. On the Review and finish page, confirm your settings and select Finish, and then select
Done.
After you set up the ownerless group policy
Notifications are sent weekly starting within 24 hours of policy creation. The audit log tracks
notifications and responses.
If a user is part of multiple ownerless groups, they can receive separate weekly notifications, one
for each group they're an active member of.
When someone accepts or declines group ownership
Up to two members per group can accept the invitation to become an owner. Once someone
accepts ownership, the policy stops sending notifications to the group's members.
If a member declines ownership, they stop receiving the weekly notifications.
If a member doesn't accept or decline ownership, they keep receiving the weekly notifications for
the number of weeks specified in the policy.
When no one accepts group ownership
After the notification period specified in the policy ends, the policy stops sending notifications. In
this scenario, the ownerless groups policy takes no further action. Tenant admins need to find
and assign an owner for each ownerless group.

--- Page 283 of 2193 ---
See which groups are ownerless
Admins can see which Microsoft 365 groups remain ownerless by searching the audit log in
the Microsoft Purview portal. To search for ownerless groups, follow these steps:
1. Sign in to the Microsoft Purview portal .
2. Select the Audit solution card.
If the Audit solution card isn't displayed, select View all solutions, and then select Audit in
the Core section.
3. On the Search page, in the Activities - friendly names field, select Unattended ownerless
group from the dropdown list.
4. Select the Search button.
Auditing changes to ownerless group policy
To find details about changes to the ownerless group policy, search for the Updated the
ownerless group policy activity.
1. Sign in to the Microsoft Purview portal and start a new audit log search.
７ Note
For help with Microsoft Purview authentication, see Microsoft Purview portal.
2. Under Activities – friendly names, type ownerless group, and select the Updated the
ownerless group policy activity.
3. Specify the start and end dates for the audit log search.

--- Page 284 of 2193 ---

When the search finishes, you see the following result.

The following example shows an audit log entry for changes made:

Common issues with the ownerless group policy
Exchange Online throttles policy notifications.

--- Page 285 of 2193 ---
Because this policy sends notifications from one mailbox, Exchange Online can throttle
the policy's notification emails if there are too many ownerless groups in your
organization. Exchange Online mailboxes are limited to 10,000 sent emails per day.
The action buttons Yes and No aren't available in a forwarded notification email.
If a member forwards their notification email to a different member, the forward recipient
can't accept or decline the invitation.
Member can't see Yes and No in the notification email.
Members should open notification emails in a separate window, not a preview pane. If
the member views the notification in an email preview pane, they can't see the Yes and
No options.
Make sure that the user principal name (UPN) and primary email address of the sender
are the same. For information about how to update the UPN or primary email address of
a user, see Change a user name and email address. If they don't match, the recipient can't
see the Yes and No options.
The policy for ownerless groups is configured, but group members don't receive
notifications.
This problem occurs if the specified sender in the policy doesn't have a user or group
mailbox provisioned in Exchange Online. If the sender has a user or group mailbox, check
the audit log in the Microsoft Purview portal to trace whether email notifications were
sent.
Members who don't have a user mailbox provisioned in Exchange Online don't receive
notifications.
Related articles
Overview of Microsoft 365 Groups for administrators
Compare types of groups in Microsoft 365
Search the audit log in the Microsoft Purview portal
Last updated on 04/22/2026

--- Page 286 of 2193 ---
Reset passwords in Microsoft 365 for
business
Summarize this article for me
This article explains how to reset passwords for yourself and other users in your organization
when you have a Microsoft 365 for business subscription and you have an appropriate role
assigned. You can also set up self-service password reset for your users so they can reset their
own passwords. To learn more, see Let users reset their own passwords.
７ Note
If you don't have a Microsoft 365 for business subscription, try this article: I forgot the
username or password for the account I use with Microsoft 365. .
Before you begin
This article is for people who set password expiration policy for a business, school, or nonprofit.
To complete these steps, sign in using your Microsoft 365 administrator account. Overview in
the Microsoft 365 admin center.
You must be a password administrator to perform these steps.
） Important
Microsoft recommends that you use roles with the fewest permissions. Using lower
permissioned accounts helps improve security for your organization. To learn more, see
About admin roles in the Microsoft 365 admin center.
Watch: Reset a business password for a user
Check out this video and others on our YouTube channel .
https://learn-video.azurefd.net/vod/player?id=6abab91d-a375-496c-8a7e-
f10bded3b389&locale=en-us&embedUrl=%2Fmicrosoft-365%2Fadmin%2Fadd-
users%2Freset-passwords
If you found this video helpful, check out the complete training series for small businesses and
those new to Microsoft 365.

--- Page 287 of 2193 ---
Steps: Reset a business password for a user
When a user requests a new password, you receive a password reset request by email. Follow
these steps to reset the password.
1. In the Microsoft 365 admin center, go to the Users > Active users page.
2. On the Active users page, select the user and then select Reset password.
3. Follow the instructions on the Reset password page to autogenerate a new password for
the user or create one for them, and then select Reset password.
4. Print the account details to a PDF, store it in a secure location, and share them with your
users securely.
） Important
To support increased security, as of August 30, 2024, Microsoft will remove the ability to
send user account details and passwords in email from within the Microsoft 365 admin
center. We recommend that you print the account information to a PDF file, then share it
with your users in a secure manner.
Let users reset their own passwords
Self-service password reset is more efficient and less work for your organization's
administrators than manually resetting passwords for users. See Let users reset their own
passwords in Microsoft 365.
Resend a user's password
1. In the Microsoft 365 admin center , go to Users > Active users.
2. On the Active users page, select the user and then select Reset password.
3. Follow the instructions on the Reset password page to autogenerate a new password for
the user or create one for them, and then select Reset password.
4. Print the account details to a PDF, store it in a secure location, and share them with your
users securely.
Reset your admin password

--- Page 288 of 2193 ---
Use these steps if you forgot your password but you're able to sign in to Microsoft 365
because, for example, your password is saved in your browser:
1. Select your name (icon) in upper right corner > View Account.
2. In your contact card, double-check that your Alternate email is accurate and that you've
provided a mobile phone number. If not, change them now. Some details might be
provided by your IT or human resources department. If you want to update those details,
contact them or your admin.
3. Sign out: select your name in the upper right corner > Sign out.
4. Now sign in again: type your user name > Next > and then select Forgot password.
5. Follow the steps in the wizard to reset your password. It uses your alternate contact info
to verify you're the right person to reset your password.
Forgot your password?
If you forgot your password and can't sign in, take one of the following steps:
Ask your administrator to reset your password for you.
Make sure you've provided alternate contact information, including a mobile phone
number.
Or call Microsoft Support.
Reset passwords for up to 40 users at the same
time
These steps work for a business with tens of users. If you have hundreds or thousands of users,
see the next section on resetting passwords in bulk (maximum 40 users at a time).
1. In the Microsoft 365 admin center , go to Users > Active users.
2. Select the option next to Display name to select everyone in your business. Then unselect
yourself. You can't reset your own password at the same time you reset everyone else's
password.
3. Select Reset password from the top row.
4. Follow the instructions on the Reset password page, and select Reset password. If you
opted for autogenerating the passwords, the new temporary passwords are displayed.
5. Print the account details to a PDF, store it in a secure location, and share it securely.

--- Page 289 of 2193 ---
Reset business passwords in bulk
Use PowerShell! Check out this post by Eyal Doron: Managing passwords with PowerShell .
For overview information, see Manage Microsoft 365 with PowerShell.
Force a password change for all users in your
business
Check out this great blog post by Vasil Michev, Microsoft MVP: Force password change for all
users in Office 365 .
Set strong passwords
1. Connect to Microsoft Entra ID using Microsoft Graph PowerShell. You can explore other
authentication methods too.
PowerShell
Connect-MgGraph -Scopes "User.Read.All"
2. Using PowerShell, you can turn off strong password requirements for all users with the
following command:
PowerShell
Get-MgUser | ForEach-Object { Update-MgUser -UserId $_.Id -PasswordPolicies
"DisableStrongPassword" }
3. You can turn OFF strong password requirements for specific users with this command:
PowerShell
Update-MgUser -UserId <UserPrincipalName> -PasswordPolicies
"DisableStrongPassword"
７ Note
The userPrincipalName must be in the Internet-style sign-in format where the user name
is followed by the at sign (@) and a domain name. For example: user@contoso.com.

--- Page 290 of 2193 ---
Related content
Small business help & learning
Microsoft 365 small business help
Assign admin roles in the Microsoft 365 admin center
Set up mobile devices for Microsoft 365 for business users
Install Microsoft 365 apps
Last updated on 03/06/2026

--- Page 291 of 2193 ---
Let users reset their own passwords
Check out all of our small business content on Small business help & learning .
Check out Microsoft 365 small business video help on YouTube.
This article is for people who set password expiration policy for a business, school, or nonprofit.
You can let people use the self-service password reset tool so you don't have to reset
passwords for them. Less work for you!
To complete these steps, you must be a password administrator.
Before you begin
Self-service password reset is included with any Microsoft 365 business, education, or
nonprofit paid plan. It doesn't work with Microsoft 365 trial.
Self-service password reset uses Azure. There's no extra charge to turn on self-service
password reset.
If you're using Active Directory on premises, you can set up self-service password reset,
but it requires a paid subscription to Microsoft Entra ID P1 or P2.
Watch: Let users reset their own passwords
Check out this video and others on our YouTube channel .
https://learn-video.azurefd.net/vod/player?id=97a8f9fb-6e3c-4432-beca-
3f8233c3d6dc&locale=en-us&embedUrl=%2Fmicrosoft-365%2Fadmin%2Fadd-
users%2Flet-users-reset-passwords
Steps: Let people reset their own passwords
1. In the Microsoft 365 admin center , in the left navigation pane, select Settings > Org
settings, and then select the Security & privacy tab. (Or, use this link to open that tab:
Security & privacy ).
2. Select Self-service password reset, and then select Go to the Azure portal to turn on
self-service password reset.

--- Page 292 of 2193 ---

This option takes you to the Password reset page in the Microsoft Entra admin center.
3. On the Password reset | Properties page, select an option, such as All or Selected.

If you choose Selected, specify groups to enable self-service password reset.
4. Select Save.
5. To specify authentication methods for users, see Manage authentication methods for
Microsoft Entra ID.
Related content
Set the password expiration policy for your organization

--- Page 293 of 2193 ---
Microsoft 365 Business training videos (link page)
Microsoft Entra authentication documentation
Last updated on 01/05/2026

--- Page 294 of 2193 ---
Password policy recommendations for
Microsoft 365 passwords
As a Microsoft 365 administrator, you're responsible for setting the password policy for users in
your organization. Setting the password policy can be complicated and confusing, and this
article provides recommendations to make your organization more secure against password
attacks.
Microsoft cloud-only accounts have a predefined password policy that can't be changed. The
only items you can change are the number of days until a password expires and whether or not
passwords expire at all.
Microsoft's latest guidance discourages password expiration policies for cloud-only accounts.
The recommended setting is for passwords to never expire.
For more information on using Entra ID for help with passwords, see Eliminate bad passwords
using Microsoft Entra Password Protection.
Understanding password recommendations
Good password practices fall into a few broad categories:
Resisting common attacks: This practice involves choosing where users enter passwords
(known and trusted devices with good malware detection, validated sites), and the what
passwords to use (length and uniqueness).
Containing successful attacks: Containing successful hacker attacks is about limiting
exposure to a specific service, or preventing that damage altogether, if a user's password
gets stolen. For example, ensuring that a breach of your social networking credentials
doesn't make your bank account vulnerable, or not letting a poorly guarded account
accept reset links for an important account.
Understanding human nature: Many valid password practices fail in the face of natural
human behaviors. Understanding human nature is critical because research shows that
almost every rule you impose on your users results in a weakening of password quality.
Length requirements, special character requirements, and password change requirements
all result in normalization of passwords, which makes it easier for attackers to guess or
crack passwords.

--- Page 295 of 2193 ---
Password guidelines for administrators
The primary goal of a more secure password system is password diversity. You want your
password policy to contain lots of different and hard-to-guess passwords. Here are a few
recommendations for keeping your organization as secure as possible.
Maintain a 14-character minimum length requirement. (Even though Microsoft 365
requires at least eight characters, for stronger security, we recommend a minimum of 14
characters.)
Don't use easy-to-guess passwords like abcdefg or password
Educate users to not reuse their organization passwords for nonwork purposes
Enforce registration for multifactor authentication
Enable identity protection risk policies
Configure password resets paired with an authentication app.
Password guidance for users
Here's some password guidance for users in your organization. Make sure to let your users
know about these recommendations and enforce the recommended password policies at the
organizational level.
Don't use a password that is the same or similar to one you use on any other websites
Don't use a single word, for example, password, or a commonly used phrase like Iloveyou
Set passwords that are hard to guess, even by people who know a lot about you.
Examples include using names and birthdays of your friends and family, your favorite
bands, and phrases you like to use
Ban easy-to-guess passwords
The most important password requirement you should put on your users when creating
passwords is to ban the use of easy-to-guess passwords that make your organization
vulnerable to brute-force password attacks. Examples include:
abcdefg
password
monkey
123456

--- Page 296 of 2193 ---
Educate users to not reuse organization passwords anywhere
else
One of the most important messages to get across to users in your organization is to not reuse
their organization password anywhere else. The use of organization passwords in external
websites greatly increases the likelihood that cybercriminals can compromise these passwords.
Enforce multifactor authentication registration
Make sure your users update contact and security information, like an alternate email address,
phone number, or a device registered for push notifications, so they can respond to security
challenges and be notified of security events. Updated contact and security information helps
users verify their identity if they ever forget their password, or if someone else tries to take
over their account. It also provides an out of band notification channel for security events such
as sign-in attempts or changed passwords.
To learn more, see Set up multifactor authentication.
Enable risk based multifactor authentication
Risk-based multifactor authentication ensures that when our system detects suspicious activity,
it can challenge the user to ensure that they're the legitimate account owner.
Related content
Set password expiration policy for Microsoft 365
Reset passwords
Let users reset their own passwords
Resend a user's password - Admin Help
Small business help & learning
Last updated on 04/08/2026

--- Page 297 of 2193 ---
Set the password expiration policy for your
organization
This article is for people who set password expiration policies for organizations, such as a
business, school, or nonprofit organization, using Microsoft 365 for business.
As a user administrator, you can make user passwords expire after a certain number of days, or
set passwords to never expire. By default, passwords never expire for your organization.
To avoid security risks associated with users setting weak passwords or reusing old passwords,
enable multifactor authentication. See Password policy recommendations.
Before you begin
You must be a user administrator to perform these steps.
Set password expiration policy
To set user passwords to expire after a set amount of time, follow these steps:
1. Sign in to the Microsoft 365 admin center .
2. From the left navigation bar, select … Show all, and then select Settings to expand it.
3. Under Settings, select Org Settings .
If you don't have an appropriate role assigned, you won't see the Org Settings option. In
this case, Check administrator roles in your organization.
4. In the Org Settings page, select the Security and Privacy tab.
5. In the Security and Privacy tab, select Password expiration policy.
6. In the Password expiration policy pane, clear the check box Set passwords to never
expire (recommended).
7. In the Days before passwords expire text box, enter how often passwords should expire.
Choose a number of days from 14 to 730, and then select Save.
） Important

--- Page 298 of 2193 ---
The Microsoft 365 admin center and Microsoft 365 productivity apps no longer support
password expiration notifications.
Important things you need to know about the
password expiration feature
People who only use the Outlook app aren't forced to reset their Microsoft 365 password until
it expires in the cache. This process can take days after the actual expiration date. There's no
workaround for this configuration at the admin level.
Prevent last password from being used again
To prevent users from recycling old passwords, enforce password history in Active Directory
(AD). For more information, see Create a custom password policy.
In Microsoft Entra ID, users can't reuse their last password when they change a password. This
password policy applies to all user accounts that you create and manage directly in Entra ID,
and it can't be modified. For more information, see Microsoft Entra password policies.
New and federated domains
Set password policies for each managed domain in your organization. If you add a new domain
or convert a domain from federated to managed, re-enable the organization password policy to
update all domains. Otherwise, the new or converted domain keeps the default policy.
Synchronize user password hashes from on-
premises Active Directory to Microsoft Entra ID
This article explains how to set the expiration policy for cloud-only users (Microsoft Entra ID). It
doesn't apply to hybrid identity users who use password hash sync, pass-through
authentication, or on-premises federation like Active Directory Federation Services (ADFS).
To learn how to synchronize user password hashes from an on-premises Active Directory to
Microsoft Entra ID, see Implement password hash synchronization with Microsoft Entra
Connect Sync.

--- Page 299 of 2193 ---
Password policies and account restrictions in
Microsoft Entra ID
You can set more password policies and restrictions in Microsoft Entra ID. For more
information, see Password policies and account restrictions in Microsoft Entra ID.
Update password policy using PowerShell
The Update-MgDomain cmdlet updates the password policy of a specified domain or tenant and
indicates the length of time that a password remains valid before it must be changed.
To learn how to update password policy for a specific domain or tenant, see Update-
MgDomain.
Related content
Let users reset their own passwords.
Reset passwords.
Small business help & learning .
Last updated on 03/13/2026

--- Page 300 of 2193 ---
User email settings in Microsoft 365
As the admin of an organization, you can manage user email settings in Microsoft 365 to control
mailbox permissions, email forwarding, automatic replies, and more. This article explains how to
configure these settings for your users.
Activate an existing business email address
If you already registered a business email domain and need to activate email in Microsoft 365,
use the setup flow first. After setup is complete, return to this article to manage mailbox settings.
1. Add and verify your domain by following Add a custom domain to Microsoft 365.
2. Add users and assign licenses by following Add users and assign licenses.
3. Sign in to Outlook by following Set up Outlook for Microsoft 365 for business email.
Manage email settings
1. Go to Microsoft 365 admin center .
2. Go to Users > Active users and select the user for whom you want to manage email
settings.
3. In the new pane, select Mail to manage email settings.
Summary of email settings in Microsoft 365
This table explains the various email settings you can change for a user in Microsoft 365.
ﾉ Expand table
Mail setting Description
Mailbox Read and manage permissions - Set whether people can read and manage other people's
permissions mailboxes. You can also set Send as permissions and Send on behalf of permissions for a
person. For more details, see Give mailbox permissions to another user in Microsoft 365 -
Admin Help.
Email apps Choose the apps a user can use to access their Microsoft email.
Show in global Enable or disable the visibility of the user's mailbox in the organization's address list.
address list

--- Page 301 of 2193 ---
Mail setting Description
Email Add a forwarding email address to a user. Use this feature if the person has multiple email
forwarding addresses and they want to receive emails at all their email addresses. For more details,
see Configure email forwarding in Microsoft 365.
Automatic Set an automatic reply when someone sends an email to the person's email address. Use
replies this feature if an employee leaves your company and you want to let the email sender
know.
More actions Convert to shared mailbox - Convert the user's mailbox to a shared mailbox. Use this
feature if the person leaves your organization and you want to keep their mailbox data
around for a while. For more information, see Convert a user mailbox to a shared mailbox
and Open and use a shared mailbox .
Edit Exchange properties - Manage other Exchange Online tasks by using the Exchange
admin center. Read about managing user mailboxes in Exchange Online. You can turn on
Manage litigation hold when you want to retain user mailbox data. Users can purge items
from their mailbox, but Microsoft 365 still retains those items.
７ Note
You can only manage email apps for mailboxes that are hosted fully in Microsoft 365. You
can't use this feature to manage email apps for mailboxes that are hosted on-premises.
Last updated on 05/08/2026

--- Page 302 of 2193 ---
Add another email alias for a Microsoft 365
business subscription user
A primary email address in Microsoft 365 is usually the email address a user was assigned when
their account was created. When the user sends email to someone else, their primary email
address is what typically appears in the From field in email apps. They can also have more than
one email address associated with their Microsoft 365 for business account. These additional
addresses are called aliases. You can create up to 400 aliases for a user. No additional fees or
licenses are required. This article is for Microsoft 365 administrators who have business
subscriptions. It's not for home users.
For example, Jenna at your organization has the email address jenna@contosoco.com, but she
also wants to receive email at jen@contosoco.com because some people refer to her by that
name. You can create aliases for her so that email sent to both email addresses go to Jenna's
inbox.
If you want multiple people to manage email sent to a single email address like
info@contoso.com or sales@contoso.com, create a shared mailbox. Learn more at Create a
shared mailbox.
７ Note
This article is for Microsoft 365 administrators who have business subscriptions. It's not for
home users.
Before you begin
You must be a member of the user administrator role to add email aliases to a user. For more
info, see About admin roles in the Microsoft 365 admin center.
Add email aliases to a user
1. In the admin center, go to the Users > Active users page.
2. On the Active Users page, select the user you want to manage.
3. Under Aliases and select Manage username and email. You won't see this option if the
person doesn't have a license assigned to them.

--- Page 303 of 2193 ---
4. On the Manage username and email page, add the new alias in the Username field,
select a domain and choose Add.
 Tip
The email alias must end with a domain from the drop-down list. To add another
domain name to the list, see Add a domain to Microsoft 365.
5. When you're done, choose Save changes. It can take up 24 hours for the new aliases to
update.
6. The user will now have a primary address and an alias. For example, all mail sent to
jenna@contoso.com, and her alias, jen@contoso.com, will go to Jenna's inbox. When the
user replies, the From address will depend on her Outlook client. Outlook on the web
will use the alias at which the email was received. Outlook desktop will use her primary
email alias.
Sending email from the proxy address easily
Your users can now send from their aliases when using Outlook on the web. When the Set-
OrganizationConfig -SendFromAliasEnabled $true cmdlet is set, users within the organization
will get access to a list of checkboxes where each entry corresponds to an alias in their Outlook
settings. Selecting an alias will make it appear in the From dropdown in the Compose form.
Troubleshooting
Did you get "A parameter cannot be found that matches
parameter name EmailAddresses" message?
If you get this error message it means that it's taking a bit longer to finish setting up your
tenant, or your custom domain if you recently added one. The setup process can take up to 4
hours to complete. Wait a while so the setup process has time to finish, and then try again. If
the problem persists, call Support and they will do a full sync for you.
Did you get "This user is synchronized with your local Active
Directory. Some details can be edited only through your local
Active Directory" message?

--- Page 304 of 2193 ---
If you get this error message, it means that you need to add the alias in your on-premises
Active Directory. Open Active Directory Users and Computers (ADUC) and select the user
account you would like to edit. Select Properties > Attribute Editor > proxyAddresses (if not
visible, under ADUC's View menu, enable Advanced Features). Next, add the required alias,
which should start with the all-lowercase prefix "smtp:" (for example,
smtp:jsmith@contoso.com). Lastly, wait for the changes to sync to Microsoft Entra ID.
Did you purchase your subscription from GoDaddy or another
Partner?
If you purchased your subscription from GoDaddy or another Partner, to set the new alias as
the primary, you can't set the new alias in the Microsoft 365 admin center. You must go to the
GoDaddy/partner management console.
Related content
Send email from a different address (article)
Change a user name and email address (article)
Configure email forwarding in Microsoft 365 (article)
Last updated on 02/02/2026

--- Page 305 of 2193 ---
Change your Microsoft 365 email address
to use your custom domain
Check out Microsoft 365 small business help on YouTube.
Check the Domains FAQ if you don't find what you're looking for.
Your initial email address in Microsoft 365 includes .onmicrosoft.com, like
tom@fourthcoffee.onmicrosoft.com. You can change it to a friendlier address like
tom@fourthcoffee.com. You'll need your own domain name, like fourthcoffee.com first. If you
already have one, great! If not, you can learn how to buy one from a domain registrar.
When you change your domain's email to come to Microsoft 365, by updating your domain's
MX record during setup, ALL email sent to that domain will start coming to Microsoft 365.
Make sure you've added users and created mailboxes in Microsoft 365 for everyone who has
email on your domain BEFORE you change the MX record. Don't want to move email for
everyone on your domain to Microsoft 365? You can take steps to pilot Microsoft 365 with just
a few email addresses instead.
Set up business email with a new domain
Check out this video and others on our YouTube channel .
https://learn-video.azurefd.net/vod/player?id=e06209e9-487f-4f5c-be79-
d658aca544be&locale=en-us&embedUrl=%2Fmicrosoft-
365%2Fadmin%2Femail%2Fchange-email-address
Buy a new domain name for your email address and set up the email addresses with Microsoft
365.
1. Buy a new domain name for your email address by providing your contact information for
the new domain name, choosing your payment method, and then placing your order.
2. Change the first part of the address (before the @ sign) or leave it as is.
3. Sign out of Microsoft 365, and then sign back in with your new email address. Your
employee email addresses are updated with the new domain.
Set up business email with an existing domain

--- Page 306 of 2193 ---
https://learn-video.azurefd.net/vod/player?id=8ea6055b-328d-4ce9-a1ac-
fa515cd16b7d&locale=en-us&embedUrl=%2Fmicrosoft-
365%2Fadmin%2Femail%2Fchange-email-address
Use a domain name you already own whether you're using it for a website address or an email
address at another provider.
1. Sign into the website that hosts your domain. Click a button to verify automatically or
update the domain manually.
2. Customize the email address or leave it as is.
3. Sign out of Microsoft 365, and then sign back in with your new email address. Your
employee email addresses are updated with the new domain.
Change your email address to use your custom
domain using the Microsoft 365 admin center
You must be a global admin to perform these steps.
） Important
Microsoft recommends that you use roles with the fewest permissions. Using roles with
the fewest permissions helps improve security for your organization. Global Administrator
is a highly privileged role that should be limited to emergency scenarios when you can't
use an existing role. For more information, see About administrator roles in the Microsoft
365 admin center.
1. Go to the Microsoft 365 admin center .
2. Go to the Settings > Domains page.
3. On the Domains page, select Add domain.
4. Follow the steps to confirm that you own your domain. You'll be guided to get everything
set up correctly with your domain in Microsoft 365.
5. Go to Users > Active users.
6. Select a user to edit their username and change it to the domain you just added.
７ Note

--- Page 307 of 2193 ---
If you are not using an Exchange license, you cannot use the domain to send or receive
emails from the Microsoft 365 tenant.
Related content
Buy a custom domain using Microsoft 365 (article)
Manage domains (link page)
Domains FAQ (article)
Last updated on 10/30/2025

--- Page 308 of 2193 ---
Select the domain to use for email from
Microsoft 365 products
Emails sent out to users as they interact with each other and across various products within
Microsoft 365 are designed to provide insights and information about their organization. These
emails are typically sent out between users based on those interactions, which means that they're
often sent from the user's email address. Those emails remain unchanged and continue to work
as they do today.
There are several scenarios where emails are sent from a no-reply system-based product
account. For example, batched comments, news, digests, and system notification emails are
currently sent from a no-reply product address. An example of such an address is no-
reply@contoso.com.
The default option is that users receive no-reply emails sent by Microsoft on behalf of your
organization. Your users receive these emails as [EXTERNAL] notifications. You can now use a
custom domain as the sender of these notifications. Using this feature means that emails are sent
from your own Exchange Online instance and they become internal communication. For example,
no-reply@sharepointonline.com [External] could become no-reply@contoso.com, if contoso.com is
the selected domain.
７ Note
Only domains registered within your tenant can be used and ownership must be verified
through the existing add domains process within Microsoft 365. Use the following steps and
note the Domain Name System (DNS) records required when configuring a domain for
sending email.
Configure the "Send email notifications from your
domain" setting
The setting is available via the Microsoft 365 Admin Center Settings menu item. Select Settings,
select Org settings, and then select the Organization profile tab as illustrated.

--- Page 309 of 2193 ---

７ Note
This setting is an opt-in setting that allows the Microsoft 365 system administrators to
select a verified domain within the tenant.
The recommendation is to use a domain that has the appropriate DNS records to
facilitate email validation For example, SPF, DKIM, DMARC, and MX. These DNS records
comply with the RFC compliance for sending and receiving email. For more
information, see Learn more about Exchange Online Email Routing.
Ensure you comply with all privacy, compliance, and security requirements and policies
within your organization.
To configure the Send email notifications from your domain setting, follow these steps:
1. Sign in to the Microsoft 365 admin center .
2. From the left navigation bar, select … Show all, and then select Settings to expand it.
3. Under Settings, select Org Settings .
4. In the Org Settings page, select the Organization profile tab.

--- Page 310 of 2193 ---
5. In the Organization profile tab, select Send email notifications from your domain.
6. In the Send email notifications from your domain pane, select Use a custom send-from
domain address.
7. In the Domains drop down menu, select the domain that you want to use for your email
replies. The domains listed in the menu includes both verified and unverified domains since
Microsoft 365 allows DNS settings to be configured and managed outside of the tenant.
8. In the Username field, either accept the default of no-reply or enter a custom username. If
creating a custom username, a matching email address can also be created so that
responses can be monitored.
9. Select Save.

７ Note
If you make a mistake or would like to roll back the change, deselect the Use a custom
send-from domain address checkbox and then select Save. The setting reverts to the
original configuration.

--- Page 311 of 2193 ---
Supported products
The following products currently support this feature:
SharePoint in Microsoft 365
OneDrive for work or school
Office
Stream
Planner
Project
Viva Connections
Viva Glint
Viva Pulse
Viva Topics
Viva Amplify
Teams
７ Note
The supported products list is updated as each product migrates to support the setting and
no action is required as these products onboard to the centralized setting.
Excluded Scenarios
One Time Passcodes (OTP) generated from sharing within OneDrive for work or school and
SharePoint in Microsoft 365 continue to use no-reply@notify.microsoft.com. These emails are
secure emails generated by Microsoft and utilize this trusted sender address to ensure delivery of
these emails.
Last updated on 05/01/2026

--- Page 312 of 2193 ---
Create organization-wide email signatures
and disclaimers
Create organization-wide email signatures in Microsoft 365 to ensure consistent branding and
legal compliance across all outgoing messages. You can set up email signatures to apply to all
messages or specific messages based on conditions like recipient or content patterns. This guide
shows you how to create and manage these signatures using the Exchange admin center.
Create a signature that applies to all messages
To learn how to Create a company-wide email signature , watch the following video.
https://learn-video.azurefd.net/vod/player?id=e160f7ee-fac5-4dde-8d16-
3de01fcc45a5&locale=en-us&embedUrl=%2Fmicrosoft-
365%2Fadmin%2Fsetup%2Fcreate-signatures-and-disclaimers
Organization-wide signatures are called disclaimers, regardless of what they include. For
example, they can just be a signature, or they can also include your address, legal disclaimer, or
other information.
To create a signature that applies to all messages, follow these steps:
1. Sign in to the Exchange admin center .
 Tip
You can also get to the Exchange admin center from the Microsoft 365 admin center.
Sign in to the Microsoft 365 admin center and then from the left navigation bar,
select … Show all. Under Admin centers, select Exchange.
2. From the left navigation bar, select Mail flow to expand it.
3. Under Mail flow, select Rules.
4. In the Rules page, select + Add a rule, and then select Apply disclaimers.
5. In the Select rule conditions page in the New transport rule pane:
a. In the Name field, enter a name for the rule.

--- Page 313 of 2193 ---
b. Select the Apply this rule drop-down menu and then select Apply to all messages.
c. Select the Do the following drop-down menus and select Apply a disclaimer to the
message in the left menu and append a disclaimer in the right menu.
d. Under the Do the following drop-down menu:
i. Select the Enter text link. In the specify disclaimer text pane that opens, enter the text
of your disclaimer, and then select Save.
ii. Select the Select one link. In the specify fallback option pane that opens, select Wrap,
and then select Save. This option only applies if the disclaimer can't be added because
of encryption or other mail setting that blocks the signature. When Wrap is selected,
the signature is wrapped in a message envelope.
e. If desired, select the Except if drop-down menus, and then choose whether you want an
exception for one of the listed items in the left menu and the condition in the right
menu.
f. Select Next.
6. In the Set rule settings page in the New transport rule pane:
a. Under Rule mode, select Enforce to turn on the disclaimer immediately. To test the
disclaimer first, select either Test with Policy Tips or Test without Policy Tips instead.
b. Select a severity level in the Severity drop-down menu.
c. Select Activate this rule on and specify a date to activate the rule.
d. If desired, select Deactivate this rule on and specify a date to deactivate the rule.
e. If desired, select Stop processing more rules. Select this check box to avoid applying
additional rules after this rule processes a message.
f. If desired, select Defer the message if rule processing doesn't complete. Select this
check box to resubmit the message for processing. By default, the rule is ignored, and
delivery of the message continues as normal.
g. For the Match sender address in message drop-down menu, leave it at the default of
Header. This option isn't relevant in this scenario since the rule applies to all messages.
h. Select Next.

--- Page 314 of 2193 ---
7. In the Review and finish page in the New transport rule pane, review the settings for the
new rule, and then select Finish.
8. When the rule finishes saving, select Done.
Limitations of organization-wide email signatures
The following limitations are limitations when managing email signatures in Microsoft 365:
You can't insert the signature directly under the latest email reply or forward.
Users can't see server-side email signatures in their Sent Items folders.
You can't embed images in email signatures.
Rules skip lines that contain variables they can't update. For example, if you use a variable
for a user's phone number but the phone number isn't provided for a user, the system skips
the line containing the variable.
 Tip
Some of these limitations can be overcome by using non-Microsoft tools. To find tools that
add capabilities and help manage email signatures and disclaimers, search for email
signature software. Several of these tools are from Microsoft Gold Partners.
More resources
For information about organization-wide message disclaimers and signatures, including using
PowerShell to add a disclaimer or signature, see Organization-wide message disclaimers,
signatures, footers, or headers in Exchange Online.
Related content
Complete training series for small businesses and users who are new to Microsoft 365
Migrate email and contacts to Microsoft 365
User email settings
Overview of the Microsoft 365 admin center
Procedures for mail flow rules in Exchange Server

--- Page 315 of 2193 ---
Last updated on 05/07/2026

--- Page 316 of 2193 ---
Create, edit, or delete a security group in the
Microsoft 365 admin center
On the Microsoft 365 Active teams and groups page, you can create groups of user accounts
that you can use to assign the same permissions to in SharePoint Online and CRM Online. For
example, an administrator can create a security group to grant a certain group of people access
to a SharePoint site.
Before you begin
User management administrators have permissions to create, edit, or delete security groups; for
more information about administrator roles, see Assigning admin roles.
There are also Groups in Exchange Online and SharePoint Online that you can use to send email
or assign permissions to a group of users, and Groups in Exchange Online and SharePoint Online
that grant users rights and access to sites and site collections.
Manage security groups in the admin center
Add a security group
1. In the Microsoft 365 admin center, go to Teams & groups > Active teams and groups
page.
2. Go to the Security groups page, and select Add a security group.
3. On the Set up the basics page, add your group name and a description and choose Next.
4. On the Edit settings page, select whether you want to allow Microsoft Entra roles to be
assigned to the group and select Next.
5. Review your selections and choose Create group and Close.
Add owners or members to a security group
1. Select the security group name on the Active teams and groups page.
2. On the General tab, select Add owners to add group owners.

--- Page 317 of 2193 ---
3. On the Members tab, select View all and manage members and choose the person from
the list or use the Search box. Select Add and close.
Remove members from a security group
1. Select the security group name on the Active teams and groups page, and on the
Members tab, select View all and manage members.
2. To remove members, select the user, choose the ellipsis and choose Remove members.
Edit a security group
1. Select the security group name on the Active teams and groups page, and on the
Members tab, select View all and manage members.
2. Select the group's name and make your changes.
Delete a security group
1. In the Microsoft 365 admin center, go to Teams & groups > Active teams and groups
page.
2. Select the security group and on the General tab, select Delete group and then confirm by
selecting Delete group. Then Close once the group is deleted.
Groups in Exchange Online and SharePoint Online
If you want to create groups of users so you can send email to them all at the same time, you can
do that in the Exchange admin center by going to Admin > Exchange > Recipients > Groups .
Next, select Add a group. Then, choose the type of group you want to create. For more
information, see Compare types of groups in Microsoft 365.
After you create distribution groups and mail-enabled security groups in the Exchange admin
center , their names and user lists appear on the Security groups page. You can delete these
groups in both locations, but you can edit them only in the Exchange admin center. Dynamic
distribution groups don't show up on the Security groups page.
SharePoint groups are created automatically when you make a site collection. The default groups
use the default permission levels in SharePoint-sometimes called SharePoint roles-to grant users
rights and access. For more information, see Default SharePoint groups in SharePoint Online.

--- Page 318 of 2193 ---
Frequently asked questions about groups
How is a security group different from security groups I create
in SharePoint?
Security groups can be used with SharePoint, Exchange, Windows, and more. A security group
you create in SharePoint is only recognized by that SharePoint site collection.
Do I have to use security groups for my organization to
be secure?
No. This is just one more way you can manage security for your organization. You can always
grant user permissions and access to sites individually. But with security groups, you can easily
manage larger groups of users.
Can I send email to a security group?
Yes. But if you want to use groups for email and collaboration, we recommend that you create a
Microsoft 365 group instead.
Related content
Create a group in the Microsoft 365 admin center (article)
Explaining Microsoft 365 Groups to your users (article)
Manage a group in the Microsoft 365 admin center (article)
Last updated on 05/18/2026

--- Page 319 of 2193 ---
Configure email forwarding in Microsoft
365
As the admin of an organization, you might have company requirements to set up email
forwarding for a user's mailbox. Email forwarding lets you forward email messages sent to a
user's mailbox to another user's mailbox inside or outside of your organization.
） Important
You can use outbound spam filter policies to control automatic forwarding to external
recipients. For more information, see Control automatic external email forwarding in
Microsoft 365.
Email forwarding to external recipient domains outside the organization doesn't prevent
messages identified as spam, phishing, or high-confidence phishing from being
forwarded. The recipient needs their own email security filter to identify and block these
messages.
Before you begin
Before you set up email forwarding, note the following:
Allow automatically forwarded messages to be sent to people on the remote domain. See
Manage remote domains for details.
Once you set up email forwarding, only new emails sent to the from mailbox will be
forwarded.
Email forwarding requires that the from account has a license unless it's a shared mailbox.
If you're setting up email forwarding because the user has left your organization, another
option is to convert their mailbox to a shared mailbox. This way several people can access
it. However, a shared mailbox can't exceed 50 GB.
You must be an Exchange administrator in Microsoft 365 to do these steps. For more
information, see the article About admin roles.
Configure email forwarding
1. In the admin center, go to the Users > Active users page.
2. Select the name of the user whose email you want to forward and select the Mail tab.

--- Page 320 of 2193 ---
3. Select Manage email forwarding.
4. On the email forwarding page, select Forward all emails sent to this mailbox. Enter the
forwarding address, and choose whether you want to keep a copy of forwarded emails. If
you don't see this option, make sure a license is assigned to the user account. Select Save
changes.
5. Don't delete the account of the user who's email you're forwarding or remove their
license! If you do, email forwarding will stop.
To forward to multiple email addresses, you can ask this user to set up a rule in Outlook to
forward to the addresses. For more info, check out Turn on automatic forwarding in Outlook .
For Outlook on the web, see Use rules to automatically forward messages .
Related content
Create a shared mailbox (article)
Forward emails that are sent to a shared mailbox (article)
Send email from a different address (article)
Change a user name and email address (article)
Control automatic external email forwarding in Microsoft 365 (article)
Last updated on 02/03/2026

--- Page 321 of 2193 ---
About shared mailboxes in Microsoft 365
This article explains what shared mailboxes are, when to use them, licensing considerations,
limitations, and common troubleshooting scenarios.
Use shared mailboxes when multiple people need access to the same mailbox, such as for:
Company information addresses.
Support email addresses.
Reception or front-desk mailboxes.
Any other mailboxes shared by multiple people.
Users with the appropriate permissions can send as or send on behalf of a shared mailbox.
Shared mailboxes are useful for help and support mailboxes because users can send emails
from Contoso Support or Building 7 Reception.
Before creating a shared mailbox
Know the following items before creating a shared mailbox:
Licensing and mailbox storage limits
Licensing: A shared mailbox can store up to 50 GB of data without assigning a license to
it.
２ Warning
When a shared mailbox reaches the mailbox storage limit, you can receive email for
some time, but you can't send new email. After some time, the shared mailbox stops
receiving email and senders to the mailbox receive a non-delivery receipt. For more
information, see Exchange Online Limits.
Scenarios requiring additional licenses: The following scenarios require additional
licenses:
Shared mailbox with more than 50 GB: Shared mailboxes are limited to 50 GB. To
increase the size limit to 100 GB, the shared mailbox must be assigned an Exchange
Online Plan 2 license.
Shared mailbox with in-place archiving: To increase the size of the archive mailbox, an
Exchange Online Plan 2 license or an Exchange Online Plan 1 license with an
Exchange Online Archiving add-on license is required. Assigning either one of these

--- Page 322 of 2193 ---
licenses also lets you enable auto-expanding archiving for additional archive storage
capacity.
Shared mailbox placed on litigation hold: To place a shared mailbox on litigation hold,
the shared mailbox must have an Exchange Online Plan 2 license or an Exchange
Online Plan 1 license with an Exchange Online Archiving add-on license.
Advanced features: To apply advanced features such as Microsoft Defender for Office
365, Microsoft Purview eDiscovery (Premium), or retention policies, licenses might be
required. For more information, see Microsoft 365 licensing guidance for security &
compliance.
For step-by-step instructions on how to assign licenses, see Assign licenses to users.
Subscription requirements: To create a shared mailbox, you need to subscribe to a
Microsoft 365 for business plan that includes email (the Exchange Online service). The
Microsoft 365 Apps for business subscription doesn't include email. Microsoft 365
Business Standard does include email.
License requirements to access a shared mailbox: To access a shared mailbox, a user
must have a licensed Exchange Online mailbox, but the shared mailbox doesn't require a
separate license. Delegate access must be done through the delegate's own mailbox.
Access and permissions
User permissions: To use the shared mailbox, assign permissions to users through a
membership. Only people inside your organization can use a shared mailbox.
External users: You can't give people outside your business, such as people with a Gmail
account, access to your shared mailbox. If you want to give people outside your business
access to your shared mailbox, consider creating a group for Outlook instead. To learn
more, see Create a Microsoft 365 group in the admin center.
Signing in: A shared mailbox isn't intended for direct sign-in by using its associated user
account. Always block sign-in for the shared mailbox account and keep it blocked.
Admin roles: Users with Exchange admin roles can create shared mailboxes.
Shared mailbox password: Every shared mailbox has a corresponding user account with a
system-generated password that isn't known or intended for use. Don't use the account
to sign in to the shared mailbox.
Client support and usage

--- Page 323 of 2193 ---
Use with Outlook for Android and Outlook for iOS App: In addition to using Outlook on
the web from your browser to access shared mailboxes, you can also use the Outlook for
iOS app or the Outlook for Android app. To learn more, see Add a shared mailbox to
Outlook mobile . Another option is to create a group for your shared mailbox. To learn
more, see Compare Groups.
Too many users: A shared mailbox supports a maximum of 25 users. If too many users
access the mailbox at the same time, they might experience connection failures or
duplicated messages. If you need more users, use a Microsoft 365 group instead.
Message deletion: You can't prevent users from deleting messages in a shared mailbox.
To restrict deletion, create a Microsoft 365 group instead of a shared mailbox. A Microsoft
365 group in Outlook provides shared access to email and a calendar, but it uses a
different model than a shared mailbox. For a comparison of the two, see Compare
groups. To learn more about groups, see Learn about Microsoft 365 groups .
Security and compliance considerations
Encryption: Email sent from a shared mailbox can't be encrypted because the mailbox
doesn't have its own security context (username and password). As a result, it can't be
assigned an encryption key. If members encrypt messages using their own keys, other
members might not be able to read those messages.
Litigation hold: Shared mailboxes require additional licensing to support litigation hold.
For more information, see Licensing and mailbox storage limits.
Mailbox management
Mailbox conversion: You can convert user mailboxes to shared mailboxes. See Convert a
user mailbox to a shared mailbox.
Mailboxes created before July 2018: All unlicensed shared mailboxes created before July
2018 have a size of 100 GB. For more information, see Correcting Shared Mailbox
provisioning and sizing .
Troubleshoot shared mailbox problems
This section describes common problems you might encounter when creating or using shared
mailboxes and how to resolve them.
Error when creating shared mailboxes

--- Page 324 of 2193 ---
If you're trying to give the shared mailbox a name that's already in use, you see the following
error message:
The proxy address "smtp:<shared mailbox name>" is already being used by the proxy
addresses or LegacyExchangeDN of "<name>". Please choose another proxy address
For example, to create two shared mailboxes named info@domain1 and info@domain2, perform
one of the following two tasks:
Use Exchange Online PowerShell. For instructions, see Create Shared Mailboxes with
Same Alias at Different Domains .
Name the second shared mailbox something different from the start to get around the
error. Then in the Microsoft 365 admin center , rename the shared mailbox to what you
want it to be.
Send permissions error when you use a shared mailbox
If you create a shared mailbox and then try to send a message from it, you might get the
following error message:
This message could not be sent. You do not have the permission to send the message on
behalf of the specified user.
This message appears when Microsoft 365 is experiencing a replication latency problem. It
goes away in about an hour, when the information about your new shared mailbox (or added
user) is replicated across all data centers. Wait an hour and then try again to send a message.
Related content
Create a shared mailbox.
Configure a shared mailbox.
Convert a user mailbox to a shared mailbox.
Last updated on 03/13/2026

--- Page 325 of 2193 ---
Create a shared mailbox
７ Note
If your organization uses a hybrid Exchange environment, you should use the on-premises
Exchange admin center to create and manage shared mailboxes. See Create shared
mailboxes in the Exchange admin center
If you're not sure if you should create a shared mailbox or a Microsoft 365 group for
Outlook, see Compare groups for some guidance. It's not possible to migrate a shared
mailbox to a Microsoft 365 group.
Create shared mailboxes so a group of people can monitor and send email from a common
email addresses, like info@contoso.com. When a person in the group replies to a message sent
to the shared mailbox, the email appears to be from the shared mailbox, not from the
individual user.
Shared mailboxes include a shared calendar. Your team can use the shared calendar as a place
for everyone to enter their appointments. For example, if you have 3 people who do customer
visits, all can use the shared calendar to enter the customer visit information.
Before creating a shared mailbox, be sure to read About shared mailboxes for more
information.
Create a shared mailbox and add members
1. Sign in with a user with Exchange admin role. If you get the message "You don't have
permission to access this page or perform this action," then you aren't an admin.
2. In the admin center, go to the Teams & Groups > Shared mailboxes page. Select Show
all in the left navigation pane if you don't see Teams & Groups.
3. On the Shared mailboxes page, select + Add a shared mailbox. Enter a name for the
shared mailbox. This chooses the email address, but you can edit it if needed.
4. Select Save changes. It may take a few minutes before you can add members.
5. Under Next steps, select Add members to this mailbox. Members are the people who
will be able to view the incoming mail to this shared mailbox, and the outgoing replies.
6. Select the Add members button. Select the people who you want to use this shared
mailbox, and then select Add. and then close.

--- Page 326 of 2193 ---
７ Note
By default, every new shared mailbox has sign-in blocked. For instructions on how to
block sign-in for accounts using >Microsoft Graph PowerShell (including many accounts
at the same time), see Block Microsoft 365 user accounts with PowerShell.
Which permissions should you use?
You can use the following permissions with a shared mailbox:
Full Access: The Full Access permission lets a user open the shared mailbox and act as the
owner of that mailbox. After accessing the shared mailbox, a user can create calendar
items, read, view, delete, and change email messages, and create tasks and calendar
contacts. However, a user with Full Access permission can't send email from the shared
mailbox unless they also have Send As or Send on Behalf permission.
Send As: The Send As permission lets a user impersonate the shared mailbox when
sending mail. For example, if Katerina logs into the shared mailbox Marketing Department
and sends an email, it will look like the Marketing Department sent the email.
Send on Behalf: The Send on Behalf permission lets a user send email on behalf of the
shared mailbox. For example, if John logs into the shared mailbox Reception Building 32
and sends an email, it will look like the mail was sent by "John on behalf of Reception
Building 32". You can use the EAC to grant Send on Behalf permissions or you can use the
Set-Mailbox cmdlet with the GrantSendonBehalf parameter.
７ Note
The Send As and Send on Behalf permissions do not work in the Outlook desktop client
with the HiddenFromAddressListsEnabled parameter on the mailbox set to True, since they
require the mailbox to be visible in Outlook via the Global Address List.
Use the EAC to edit shared mailbox delegation
1. In the Exchange admin center , go to Recipients > Mailboxes. Select the shared
mailbox, and then select Edit .
2. Under Mailbox permissions, select Manage mailbox delegation.

--- Page 327 of 2193 ---
3. To grant or remove Full Access and Send As permissions, select Add or Remove and
then select the users you want to grant permissions to.
７ Note
The Full Access permission allows a user to open the mailbox as well as create and
modify items in it. The Send As permission allows anyone other than the mailbox
owner to send email from this shared mailbox. Both permissions are required for
successful shared mailbox operation.
4. Select Save to save your changes.
Add the shared mailbox to Outlook
If you have automapping enabled in your business (by default, most people do), the shared
mailbox will appear in your user's Outlook app automatically after they close and restart
Outlook.
Automapping is set on the user's mailbox, not the shared mailbox. This means if you try to use
a security group to manage who has access to the shared mailbox, automapping won't work.
So, if you want automapping, you have to assign permissions explicitly. Automapping is on by
default. To learn how to turn it off, see Remove automapping for a shared mailbox.
To learn more about shared mailboxes in Outlook, see:
Open and use a shared mailbox in Outlook
Add a shared mailbox to Outlook on the web
Add a shared mailbox to Outlook mobile
Open a shared folder or mailbox in Outlook for Mac
Add rules to a shared mailbox
Use a shared mailbox on a mobile device (phone or
tablet)
You can access a shared mailbox on a mobile device in two ways:
Add the shared mailbox in the Outlook for iOS app or the Outlook for Android mobile
app .

--- Page 328 of 2193 ---
For instructions, see Add a shared mailbox to Outlook mobile .
Open your browser, sign in, and then go to Outlook on the web. From Outlook on the
web you'll be able to access the shared mailbox.
For instructions, see Add a shared mailbox to Outlook on the web .
７ Note
Shared mailbox can only be added to Outlook for iOS app or the Outlook for Android
mobile app
Use the shared calendar
When you created the shared mailbox, you automatically created a shared calendar. We like
the shared mailbox calendar rather than a SharePoint calendar for keeping track of
appointments and where people are. A shared calendar is integrated with Outlook and it's
much easier to use than a SharePoint calendar.
1. In the Outlook app, go to calendar view, and select the shared mailbox.
2. When you enter meetings or appointments, everyone who is a member of the shared
mailbox will be able to see them.
3. Any member of the shared mailbox can create, view, and manage appointments on the
calendar, just like they would their personal appointments. Everyone who is a member of
shared mailbox can see their changes to the shared calendar.
Remove a license from a shared mailbox
Shared mailboxes usually don't require a license. Follow these instructions to remove a license
from a shared mailbox so that you can either assign it to a user or return the license so that
you aren't paying for a license you don't need.
７ Note
An Exchange Online Plan 2 license is required in the following scenarios:
The shared mailbox has more than 50 GB of storage in use.
The shared mailbox uses in-place archiving.
The shared mailbox is placed in litigation hold.

--- Page 329 of 2193 ---
For step-by-step instructions on how to assign licenses, see Assign licenses to users.
Remove the license
1. In the admin center, go to the Users > Active users page.
７ Note
You need to remove the license from the Active users page. You can't remove the
license from the Shared mailbox page because licenses are user settings.
2. Select the shared mailbox.
3. One the Licenses and Apps tab, expand Licenses and uncheck the box for the license you
want to remove.
4. Select Save changes.
5. When you return to the Active users page, the status of the shared mailbox will be
Unlicensed.
6. You're still paying for the license. To stop paying for it, remove the license from your
subscription.
Related content
About shared mailboxes (article)
Configure a shared mailbox (article)
Convert a user mailbox to a shared mailbox (article)\
Last updated on 02/03/2026

--- Page 330 of 2193 ---
Configure Microsoft 365 shared mailbox
settings
After you have created a shared mailbox, you'll want to configure some settings for the
mailbox users, such as email forwarding and automatic replies. Later, you might want to
change other settings, such as the mailbox name, members, or member permissions.
Change the name of a shared mailbox
1. In the admin center, go to Teams & groups > Shared mailboxes .
2. Select the shared mailbox you want to edit, and then select Edit under Basic information.
3. Enter a new name for the shared mailbox.
4. Select Save.
Change the email address of a shared mailbox
1. In the admin center, go to Teams & groups > Shared mailboxes .
2. Select the shared mailbox you want to edit, and then select Edit under Email addresses.
3. Enter a new email address for the shared mailbox. If you want to change the primary
email address, your mailbox must have more than one email alias.
Forward emails that are sent to a shared mailbox
） Important
Email forwarding to recipients outside the organization doesn't prevent messages
identified as spam, phishing, or malware from being forwarded. The recipient needs their
own email security filter to identify and block these messages.
You do not need to assign a license to the shared mailbox in order to forward email that's sent
to it. You can forward the messages to any valid email address or distribution list.
1. In the admin center, go to Teams & groups > Shared mailboxes .
2. Select the shared mailbox you want to edit, then select Edit under Email forwarding.

--- Page 331 of 2193 ---
3. Select the checkbox to Forward all emails sent to this mailbox. Enter one email address
to forward the messages to. It can be any valid email address. To forward to multiple
addresses, you need to create a distribution group for the addresses, and then enter the
name of the group in this box.
4. Select Save.
Send automatic replies from a shared mailbox
1. In the admin center, go to Teams & groups > Shared mailboxes .
2. Select the shared mailbox you want to edit, then select Edit under Automatic replies.
3. Select the checkbox to Send automatic replies to senders inside this organization.
4. Enter the replies you want to send to people inside or outside your organization. You
can't add images, only text.
5. Select Save.
Allow everyone to see the Sent email (the replies)
By default, messages sent from the shared mailbox aren't saved to the Sent Items folder of the
shared mailbox. Instead, they are saved to the Sent Items folder of the person who sent the
message.
If you want to allow everyone to see the Sent email, in the admin center, edit the shared
mailbox settings. Select Edit under Sent items. Select the options you want for sent items.
Choose the apps that a shared mailbox can use to
access Microsoft email
1. In the admin center, go to Teams & groups > Shared mailboxes .
2. Select the shared mailbox you want to edit, then select Edit under Email apps.
3. Select the checkboxes for all of the apps you want members to be able to use to access
the shared mailbox.
4. Select Save.
Put a shared mailbox on litigation hold

--- Page 332 of 2193 ---
To learn more about litigation hold, see Create a Litigation Hold.
1. Go to the Exchange admin center .
2. Select Recipients > Mailboxes and select the shared mailbox you want to manage.
3. On the Others tab, select Edit under Litigation hold.
4. Enter a duration, a note about the hold for the user if you want, and a URL with more
information.
5. Select Save.
Add or remove members
1. In the Microsoft 365 admin center, go to Teams & groups > Shared mailboxes .
2. Select the shared mailbox you want to edit, then select Edit under Members.
3. Do one of the following:
To add members, select Add members, search for or select a member to add, and
then select Save.
To remove members, use the Search box to search for the member if necessary,
deselect the member and choose Remove member.
Add or remove permissions of members
1. In the Microsoft 365 admin center, go to Teams & groups > Shared mailboxes .
2. Select the shared mailbox you want to edit, then under Manage mailbox permissions,
select one of the permissions.
3. Do one of the following:
To give that permission to an additional member, select Add permissions, search for
or select a member to add, and then select Add.
To remove the permission from a member, select the user, and then select Remove
permissions.
Show or hide a shared mailbox in the global
address list

--- Page 333 of 2193 ---
If you choose not to show the shared mailbox in the global address list, the mailbox won't
appear in your organization's address list, but it will still receive email sent to it.
1. In the Microsoft 365 admin center, go to Teams & groups > Shared mailboxes .
2. Select the shared mailbox you want to edit, then select Edit under Show in global
address list.
3. Select the option you want next to Show in my organization's global address list. Select
Save.
７ Note
Hiding a shared mailbox from address list will make it impossible for new shared mailbox
members to add the hidden mailbox to their Outlook profile until the shared mailbox is
again shown in the address list.
Related content
About shared mailboxes (article)
Create a shared mailbox (article)
Convert a user mailbox to a shared mailbox (article)\
Last updated on 02/03/2026

--- Page 334 of 2193 ---
Convert a user mailbox to a shared mailbox
When you convert a user's mailbox to a shared mailbox, all of the existing email and calendar
information is retained. Only now it's in a shared mailbox where several people will be able to
access it instead of one person. At a later date, you can convert a shared mailbox back to a
user (private) mailbox.
Before you begin
Here are some really important things that you need to know:
The user mailbox needs a license assigned to it before you convert it to a shared mailbox.
Otherwise, you won't see the option to convert the mailbox. If you've removed the
license, add it back so you can convert the mailbox. After converting the user mailbox to a
shared mailbox, you can remove the license from the user's account.
Without a license, shared mailboxes are limited to 50 GB. You might need to delete a
bunch of large messages (say, messages with attachments) from the shared mailbox to
shrink it down so you can remove the license.
To increase the size limit to 100 GB, assign an Exchange Online Plan 2 license to the
shared mailbox.
If you assign an Exchange Online Plan 1 license and an Exchange Online Archiving add-on
license to the shared mailbox, you can enable auto-expanding archiving for additional
archive storage capacity.
Don't delete the old user's account, because the account is required to anchor the shared
mailbox. If you've already deleted the user account, see Convert the mailbox of a deleted
user.
You don't need to reset the account password of the user mailbox. However, if you don't
reset the password, the original username and password will continue to work on the
shared mailbox after the conversion is finished.
Inbox rules are preserved after the user mailbox is converted to a shared mailbox.
To put an In-Place Hold or a Litigation Hold on a shared mailbox, you must assign an
Exchange Online Plan 2 license or an Exchange Online Plan 1 license and an Exchange
Online Archiving add-on license to the shared mailbox.
Convert a user's mailbox to a shared mailbox

--- Page 335 of 2193 ---
1. In the admin center, go to the Users > Active users page.
2. Select the user. On the Mail tab, select Convert to shared mailbox and select Convert.
3. If the mailbox is smaller than 50 GB, you can remove the license from the user, and stop
paying for it. Don't delete the user's account. The shared mailbox needs it there as an
anchor. If you are converting the mailbox of an employee that is leaving your
organization, you should take additional steps to make sure that they cannot log in
anymore. Please see Remove a former employee from Microsoft 365.
For everything else you need to know about shared mailboxes, see About shared mailboxes
and Create a shared mailbox.
Convert the mailbox of a deleted user
After deleting a user account, follow these steps to convert their old mailbox to a share
mailbox:
1. Restore the user's account.
2. Make sure a Microsoft 365 license is assigned to it.
3. Reset the user's password.
4. It can take up to 24 hours for their mailbox to be re-created.
5. Once the mailbox is re-created, remove the license from the user's mailbox. Don't delete
the user's old mailbox. The shared mailbox needs it there as an anchor.
6. Add members to the shared mailbox.
Convert a shared mailbox back to a user's mailbox
1. Go to the Exchange admin center .
2. Select Recipients > Mailboxes.
3. Select the shared mailbox. On the Others tab, select Convert to regular mailbox and
select Confirm.
4. Select Confirm on the Convert mailbox from shared to regular page.
5. Go back to the admin center. Under Users, choose the user account associated with the
old shared mailbox. Assign a license to the account, and then reset the password.

--- Page 336 of 2193 ---
It will take a few minutes for the mailbox to get set up, but after that, the person who's
going to use that account is ready to go. When they sign in, they'll see the email and
calendar items that used to be in the shared mailbox.
Convert a user's mailbox in a hybrid environment
For more info about converting a user mailbox to a shared mailbox in an Exchange Hybrid
environment, see:
Cmdlets to create or modify a remote shared mailbox in an on-premises Exchange
environment
Shared mailboxes are unexpectedly converted to user mailboxes after directory
synchronization runs in an Exchange hybrid deployment
７ Note
If you're a member of the Organization Management or Recipient Management role
group, you can use the Exchange Management Shell to change a user mailbox to a shared
mailbox on-premises. For example, Set-Mailbox -Identity mailbox1@contoso.com -Type
Shared.
Related content
About shared mailboxes (article)
Create a shared mailbox (article)
Configure a shared mailbox (article)
Last updated on 02/02/2026

--- Page 337 of 2193 ---
Configure Focused Inbox for everyone in
your organization
If you're responsible for configuring how email works for everyone in a business, this article is for
you. It explains how to customize Focused Inbox or turn it off for your business, and answers
frequently asked questions.
To turn off Focused Inbox just for yourself, see Turn off Focused Inbox .
If you want to be sure that your users receive business-specific email messages, such as those
from HR or payroll, you can configure Focused Inbox so these messages reach the Focused view.
You can also control whether users in your organization see the Focused Inbox in their mailbox.
Turn Focused Inbox on or off in your organization
Use PowerShell to turn Focused Inbox on or off for everyone in your organization. Want to use
this feature in the Microsoft 365 admin center? Let our Engineering team know. Vote here!
To turn off Focused Inbox
The following PowerShell example turns Focused Inbox Off in your organization. However, it
doesn't block the availability of the feature for your users. If they want, they can still re-enable
Focused Inbox on each of their clients.
1. Connect to Exchange Online PowerShell.
2. You need to be assigned permissions before you can perform this procedure or procedures.
To see what permissions you need, see the "Transport rules" entry in Messaging policy and
compliance permissions.
3. Run the Get-OrganizationConfig cmdlet.
PowerShell
Get-OrganizationConfig
4. Look for FocusedInboxOn to view its current setting:

--- Page 338 of 2193 ---

5. Run the following cmdlet to turn off Focused Inbox.
PowerShell
Set-OrganizationConfig -FocusedInboxOn $false
6. Run the Get-OrganizationConfig cmdlet again and you see that FocusedInboxOn is set to
$false, which means it's turned off.
To turn on Focused Inbox
In Step 5, run the following cmdlet to turn on Focused Inbox.
PowerShell
Set-OrganizationConfig -FocusedInboxOn $true
What do users see after I turn on Focused Inbox?
Your users see the Focused view only after they close and restart Outlook. When they restart
Outlook, they see a tip in the Outlook user interface that gives them the option to use the new
Focused Inbox.

If you're switching from Clutter to Focused Inbox, users can decide to enable it ("Try it") or
dismiss the feature. If the user has multiple supported clients, they can enable or disable Focused
Inbox individually on each one. The tip looks like this:

--- Page 339 of 2193 ---

When a user decides to start using Focused Inbox, the feature automatically disables Clutter. The
Clutter folder converts into a standard folder that the user can rename or delete.
Turn Focused Inbox on or off for specific users
This example turns Focused Inbox Off for Tim Matthew in the Contoso organization. However, it
doesn't block the availability of the feature to Tim. Tim can still re-enable Focused Inbox on each
of his clients.
1. Connect to Exchange Online PowerShell.
2. You need to be assigned permissions before you can perform this procedure or procedures.
To see what permissions you need, see the "Transport rules" entry in the Messaging policy
and compliance permissions article.
3. Run the Get-FocusedInbox cmdlet, for example:
PowerShell
Get-FocusedInbox -Identity <tim@contoso.com>
4. Look for FocusedInboxOn to view its current setting:
5. Run the following cmdlet to turn off Focused Inbox:
PowerShell

--- Page 340 of 2193 ---
Set-FocusedInbox -Identity <tim@contoso.com> -FocusedInboxOn $false
OR, run the following cmdlet to turn it on:
PowerShell
Set-FocusedInbox -Identity <tim@contoso.com> -FocusedInboxOn $true
Use the UI to create a transport rule to direct email
messages to the Focused view for all your users
1. Go to the Exchange admin center .
2. Navigate to Mail flow > Rules. Select Add a rule and then select Create a new rule....
3. After you finish creating the new rule, select Save to start the rule.
Use PowerShell to create a transport rule that directs
email messages to the Focused view for all your users
1. Connect to Exchange Online PowerShell.
2. You need to be assigned permissions before you can perform this procedure or procedures.
To see what permissions you need, see the "Transport rules" entry in Messaging policy and
compliance permissions.
3. Run the following command to deliver all messages from "Payroll Department," for example,
to the Focused Inbox.
PowerShell
New-TransportRule -Name <name_of_the_rule> -From "Payroll Department" -
SetHeaderName "X-MS-Exchange-Organization-BypassFocusedInbox" -SetHeaderValue
"true"
） Important
In this example, both "X-MS-Exchange-Organization-BypassFocusedInbox" and "true" are
case sensitive. Also, Focused Inbox honors the X-header that bypasses Clutter. So if you use

--- Page 341 of 2193 ---
this setting in Clutter, it's used in the Focused Inbox. For detailed syntax and parameter
information, see New-TransportRule.
How do you know if this rule worked?
You can check email message headers to see if the email messages are landing in the Inbox due
to the Focused Inbox transport rule bypass. Pick an email message from a mailbox in your
organization that has the Focused Inbox transport rule applied. Look at the headers stamped on
the message, and you should see the X-MS-Exchange-Organization-BypassFocusedInbox: true
header. This header means the bypass is working. For info on how to find the header information,
see View the Internet header information for an email message .
What does the user see?
If a transport rule is in place, a notification shows for the override. Outlook on the web disables
the Always move to Other option and shows a tooltip. Outlook clients on desktop allow you to
select Always move to Other from a pop-up dialog.
Turn on or off Clutter
Microsoft received reports that Clutter suddenly stopped working for some users. If Clutter stops
working, you can enable it again for specific users. See Configure Clutter for your organization.
FAQ for Focused Inbox
Here are answers to frequently asked questions about Focused Inbox.
Can I control how I roll out Focused Inbox in my organization?
Yes. You can turn Focused Inbox on or off for your entire organization, or you can turn it on or off
for specified users.
Is the Focused Inbox feature only available for Office 2016 clients?
Yes, only users with Office 2016 are affected. The feature isn't going to be backported to Outlook
2013 or earlier.
How long does it take for Focused Inbox changes to take place
in Outlook?

--- Page 342 of 2193 ---
Once you turn on or turn off Focused Inbox, the settings take effect when your users close and
restart Outlook.
What happens to Clutter once I turn on Focused Inbox?
After switching, you no longer receive less actionable email in the Clutter folder. Instead, email is
split between the Focused and Other tabs in your inbox. The same algorithm that moved items to
the Clutter folder now powers Focused Inbox, meaning that any emails that were set to move to
Clutter are now moved to Other. Any messages already in your Clutter folder remain there until
you decide to delete or move them.
Check out this post by Tony Redmond , Microsoft MVP: How the Focused Inbox Replaces Clutter
Inside Office 365 .
Can I keep users on Clutter? What is Microsoft's recommendation when it
comes to using Clutter vs Focused Inbox?
Yes, you can keep users on Clutter and disable Focused Inbox. However, eventually Clutter is fully
replaced with Focused Inbox so Microsoft recommends moving to Focused Inbox now. To learn
more about when you use Clutter with Exchange Online, see this blog post: Update on Focused
Inbox and our plans for Clutter .
Should I disable Clutter for my end users if we're going to move everyone
to Focused Inbox?
No. You can explicitly disable Clutter for a mailbox by running the Set-Clutter cmdlet. However, if
you disable Clutter, the mailbox owner sees messages that were previously redirected to the
Clutter folder remain in the Inbox. They have to process those messages until their client is
upgraded to a version that supports the Focused Inbox. It's best not to disable Clutter until the
upgraded clients are available.
Why are there two different cmdlets for managing Focused Inbox?
Focused Inbox has two associated states:
Organization Level: Focused Inbox state, and an associated last update timestamp.
Mailbox Level: Focused Inbox state, and an associated last update timestamp.
How does Outlook decide to show the Focused Inbox experience with
these two states?

--- Page 343 of 2193 ---
Outlook decides which experience to show by choosing the cmdlet with the latest timestamp. By
default, both timestamps are null, and in this case, the feature is enabled.
Why does the Get-FocusedInbox cmdlet return "true" when I turn off
Focused Inbox in my organization?
Two cmdlets control Focused Inbox. When you run Get-FocusedInbox for a mailbox, it returns the
mailbox level state of the feature. Outlook chooses the experience based on which cmdlet state
was last modified.
Can I run a script to see who turned on Focused Inbox?
No, and this limitation is by design. Focused Inbox enablement is a client-side setting, so the
cmdlet can only tell you if the user's mailbox is eligible for the client experience. It's possible for
the feature to be simultaneously enabled in some clients and disabled in others. For example, it
can be enabled in Outlook app and Outlook Mobile but disabled in Outlook on the web.
Related content
Configure Clutter for your organization (article)
Configure shared mailbox settings (article)
Create signatures and disclaimers (video)
Last updated on 05/08/2026

--- Page 344 of 2193 ---
Create distribution groups in the Microsoft
365 admin center
Use distribution groups, also known as distribution lists, to send email to a group of people
without typing each recipient's name. Organize distribution groups by:
A particular discussion subject. For example, Marketing.
Users who share common work that requires them to communicate frequently.
Distribution groups also provide a way to automatically forward email to multiple email
addresses.
Create a distribution group
To create a distribution group in the Microsoft 365 admin center, follow these steps:
1. Sign in to the Microsoft 365 admin center .
2. From the left navigation bar, select … Show all, and then select Teams and groups to
expand it.
3. Under Teams and groups, select Active teams and groups .
4. On the Active teams and groups page, select Distribution list.
5. Select + Add a distribution list.
6. On the Set up the basics page, enter a name and description for the distribution group
and then select Next.
7. On the Assign owners page, select + Assign owners.
8. In the Assign owners pane, select the owners, and then select Add. Owners can manage
the group and its members.
9. On the Assign owners page, select Next.
10. On the Add members page, select + Add members.
11. On the Add members pane, select members for the distribution group, and then select
Add.

--- Page 345 of 2193 ---
12. On the Add members page, select Next.
13. On the Edit settings page, enter a group email address for the distribution group and
then select Next. If you want to allow people outside your organization to send email to
the group, then also select the option Allow people outside of my organization to send
email to this Distribution group.
14. On the Review and finish adding group page, verify the information is correct and then
select Create group.
For more information about distribution groups, see the following articles:
Add a user or contact to a distribution list.
Use contact groups (formerly distribution lists) in Outlook .
Distribution list issues.
Related content
User email settings.
Create, edit, or delete a security group in the Microsoft 365 admin center.
Create a shared mailbox.
Small business help & learning .
Last updated on 04/11/2026

--- Page 346 of 2193 ---
Add users or contacts to Microsoft 365
distribution list groups
As an admin, you can add users or contacts to a Microsoft 365 distribution list group so they
receive group email. Use these steps to quickly manage members in the admin center. See Create
distribution list groups in Microsoft 365.
Watch: Add users or contacts to a distribution
list group
The following video shows how to add users or contacts to a Microsoft 365 distribution list group
in the Microsoft 365 admin center:
https://learn-video.azurefd.net/vod/player?id=bab424a0-e18a-4c86-8e3d-
b1c6f56895d6&locale=en-us&embedUrl=%2Fmicrosoft-365%2Fadmin%2Femail%2Fadd-
user-or-contact-to-distribution-list
Steps to add users or contacts to a Microsoft 365
distribution list group
To add users or contacts to a Microsoft 365 distribution list group, follow these steps:
1. Sign in to the Microsoft 365 admin center .
2. From the left navigation bar, select … Show all, and then select Teams and groups.
3. Under Teams and groups, select Active teams and groups .
4. In the Active teams and groups page, select the Distribution list tab.
5. In the list of distribution list groups, select the name of the distribution list group you want
to add users or contacts to.
6. In the distribution list group details pane that opens, select the Members tab.
7. Under the Members section, select View all and manage members.
8. In the Members pane, select + Add members.

--- Page 347 of 2193 ---
9. In the Add members pane, find the users or contacts you want to add to the distribution list
group and then select them. You can search for a user or contact by entering their name in
the Search for a member search box.
10. Once all of the users or contacts you want to add are selected, select Add.
11. Close the Members pane.
Steps to remove users or contacts from a Microsoft 365
distribution list group
To remove users or contacts from a Microsoft 365 distribution list group, follow these steps:
1. Sign in to the Microsoft 365 admin center .
2. From the left navigation bar, select … Show all, and then select Teams and groups.
3. Under Teams and groups, select Active teams and groups .
4. In the Active teams and groups page, select the Distribution list tab.
5. In the list of distribution list groups, select the name of the distribution list group you want
to remove users or contacts from.
6. In the distribution list group details pane that opens, select the Members tab.
7. Under the Members section, select View all and manage members.
8. In the Members pane, select the users or contacts from the list of members that you want
to remove and then select Remove members. You can search for a user or contact by
entering their name in the Search member list search box.
9. Close the Members pane.
Related content
Send email as a distribution list
Small business help & learning
Last updated on 05/07/2026

--- Page 348 of 2193 ---
Create room and equipment mailboxes in
Microsoft 365
If you have a conference room or equipment that your users need to access, you need a way to
make those resources reservable to everyone. Creating a room or equipment mailbox in
Microsoft 365 is the best way to allow users to easily reserve these resources. With room and
equipment mailboxes, your organization can efficiently reserve shared resources for meetings
and events. You might create one for your first floor conference room, media equipment, or a
moving truck.
Once you create a room or equipment mailbox, everyone in your organization can reserve
shared resources for meetings or events using Outlook. This article explains how to:
Use room and equipment mailboxes.
Set up room and equipment mailboxes in the Microsoft 365 admin center.
Access and use room and equipment mailboxes
To use room or equipment mailboxes, follow these steps to reserve the resource for a meeting
or event:
1. Open Outlook or Outlook on the web on your computer.
2. On the Home tab, choose New items, and then select Meeting from the drop-down list.
Alternatively, you can also select New Meeting from the Calendar ribbon.


--- Page 349 of 2193 ---
3. In the Required field, enter the name of the conference room or equipment you want to
reserve in addition to any attendees you want to invite. Alternatively, select Required and
then double-click the conference room or equipment from the list. Once the conference
room or equipment is displayed next to Required, select OK.

4. In the Title line, type the purpose of the reservation or meeting.
5. Change the Location value or accept the default.
6. Change the Start time and End time or select All day. To make the meeting or reservation
repeat, select Recurrence at the top.

7. Type a message describing the purpose and attach any files if needed.
8. To allow others to join online or call in to the meeting, select Microsoft Teams Meeting at
the top.
9. To make sure the room, equipment, and people you invited are available, select
Scheduling Assistant from the menu bar. Then select an available time in the calendar.

--- Page 350 of 2193 ---

 Tip
In the scheduling calendar, blue means the room or equipment is reserved, or busy.
Select the white, or free, area on the calendar.
10. When finished, select Send.
Set up room and equipment mailboxes
To set up a room or equipment mailbox, follow these steps:
1. Sign in to the Microsoft 365 admin center with an account that has the proper
permissions.
2. From the left navigation bar, select … Show all, and then select Resources to expand it.
3. Under Resources, select Rooms & equipment .
4. In the Rooms & equipment page, select + Add resource.
5. In the Add resource pane, fill out the room or equipment fields:
Room or Equipment: The type of mailbox you want to create.
Name: A friendly name or short description.
Email: The email alias of the room or equipment. You need an email address to send
a meeting request to the room or equipment.
Capacity: The number of people who can fit in the room or use the equipment at
the same time.

--- Page 351 of 2193 ---
Location: The room number or location of the room in a building or region.
Phone number: The phone number of the room itself. This phone number is
different from the meeting phone number generated when using Microsoft Teams.

6. Select Save.
 Tip
To keep your room and equipment mailboxes secure, block sign-in to these mailboxes. For
more information, see Block sign-in for the shared mailbox account.
Frequently asked questions (FAQs) about room and
equipment mailboxes
For answers to common questions about managing room and equipment mailboxes, see Room
and Equipment Mailboxes FAQ.

--- Page 352 of 2193 ---
Last updated on 04/08/2026

--- Page 353 of 2193 ---
Room and equipment mailboxes FAQ
Use this FAQ to find quick answers to common questions about room and equipment
mailboxes in Microsoft 365, including availability, booking, and licensing. For more information,
see Room and equipment mailboxes.
How can I tell when the room or
equipment is available?
Open Outlook and create a new meeting. Add the room or equipment to the meeting as if it
were a person and select Scheduling Assistant to see a live calendar view of the room or
equipment's availability. If the hour slot is clear, the slot is available. If the hour slot is blue, the
slot is reserved.
How do I cancel a room or equipment
request?
Open the meeting you scheduled in Outlook and then remove the room or equipment from
the meeting like you would an attendee. Removing the room or equipment frees up the room
for others to reserve.
Does someone have to accept or decline
every room or equipment request?
No, you don't need someone to accept or decline requests. You can decide whether to let
someone in your company automatically book or manage the room or equipment.
Does a room mailbox or equipment
mailbox need a product license?
No. Room and equipment mailboxes are considered resource mailboxes. While most users in
your organization need a license to use Microsoft 365, you don't need to assign a license for a
room mailbox or equipment mailbox. For more information, see Exchange Online limits.

--- Page 354 of 2193 ---
Do I need an owner in charge of booking
the rooms or equipment?
No, you don't need someone in charge of the room mailbox or equipment mailbox.

--- Page 355 of 2193 ---
Configure Microsoft 365 Clutter for your
organization
Article • 01/06/2025
As an admin, you may have to manage the Clutter feature in Microsoft 365. To turn the
Clutter feature on/off for users in your organization, you must use Exchange PowerShell.
(Individuals can turn it on/off using these instructions: Turn off/on Clutter in Outlook ).
Check out Using PowerShell with Exchange Online and Connect to Exchange Online
PowerShell for details on using Exchange PowerShell. You need to have an account that
has at least the Exchange Service administrator role and the ability to connect to
Exchange Online with PowerShell.
Turn Clutter on using Exchange PowerShell
You can enable Clutter manually for a mailbox by running the Set-Clutter cmdlet. You
can also view Clutter settings for mailboxes in your organization by running the Get-
Clutter cmdlet.
Turn on Clutter for a single user named Allie Bellew:
Set-Clutter -Identity "Allie Bellew" -Enable $true
Turn Clutter off using Exchange PowerShell
You can disable Clutter manually for a mailbox by running the Set-Clutter cmdlet. You
can also view Clutter settings for mailboxes in your organization by running the Get-
Clutter cmdlet.
Turn off Clutter for a single user named Allie Bellew:
Set-Clutter -Identity "Allie Bellew" -Enable $false
If you use PowerShell to bulk create your users, then you need to run Set-Clutter against
each user's mailbox to manage Clutter.
When does the Clutter On/Off switch appear to
users in Outlook on the web?

--- Page 356 of 2193 ---
As an admin, you can re-enable Clutter using Exchange PowerShell. Focused Inbox is
turned off and Clutter will be active again.
If you're using Outlook on the web with a Microsoft 365 Business Premium
subscription:
If user currently has Clutter enabled:
Clutter settings appear
If user currently has Focused Inbox enabled:
Clutter settings won't appear
If neither Clutter or Focused Inbox is enabled:
Both Clutter and Focused Inbox appear as options in the user's Mail Settings
If you're using Outlook.com:
If user currently has Clutter enabled:
Clutter settings appear
If user currently has Focused Inbox enabled:
Clutter settings won't appear
If neither Clutter or Focused Inbox is enabled:
Both Clutter and Focused Inbox appear as options in the user's Mail Settings
Related content
Use Clutter to sort low priority messages in Outlook (article)
Use Clutter to sort low priority messages in OWA (article)
Feedback
Was this page helpful?  Yes  No
Provide product feedback

--- Page 357 of 2193 ---
Getting a mailbox not found error in
Outlook on the web?
If you're using Outlook on the web and you get a Mailbox couldn't be found for error, the
account that you used to connect to Outlook on the web doesn't have an Exchange Online
license and therefore, no mailbox is associated with the account.
Assign a license to your account
Your admin can assign a license to your account by following these steps:
1. Go to the Microsoft 365 admin center . In the left nav pane, in the Users section, select
Active users, and then select the user who is seeing the error.
2. In the user page that opens, go to the Licenses and Apps section, select the appropriate
Location value, and assign a license that contains Exchange Online (expand Apps to see its
details).
3. When you're finished, click Save changes.
Related content
Add another email alias for a user (article)
Configure email forwarding in Microsoft 365 (article)
Create a shared mailbox (article)
Last updated on 03/18/2025

--- Page 358 of 2193 ---
Add a custom domain to Microsoft 365
Microsoft recommends using a custom domain name for your organization. A custom domain
improves brand recognition, email deliverability, and user trust. Many organizations also add
multiple domains to support alternate company names or common variations.
This article explains how to add a custom domain to Microsoft 365 and configure the DNS
records required by Microsoft 365 services. You can complete this process automatically by using
Domain Connect (recommended) or manually if your registrar doesn't support Domain Connect.
Domain Connect
When you add a custom domain, Microsoft 365 supports registrars that are Domain Connect
enabled. By using Domain Connect, Microsoft 365 automatically handles the following tasks:
Confirming domain ownership.
Adding DNS records required for Microsoft 365 services.
If a registrar doesn't support Domain Connect, you need to manually confirm domain ownership
and add DNS records. Sign in to your registrar and manually add the appropriate DNS records.
To find your registrar, see Find your domain registrar. Once you determine your registrar, consult
with the registrar to see if they support Domain Connect.
Microsoft 365 services start working after you complete these tasks. Examples of Microsoft 365
services include:
Email through Microsoft 365.
Microsoft Teams.
For examples of registrars that support Domain Connect, see Domain Connect registrars
integrating with Microsoft 365.
Before you begin
Before adding a custom domain to Microsoft 365, make sure the following requirements are met:
To add, modify, or remove domains, you must be a Domain Name Administrator of a
business or enterprise plan . Because these changes affect the whole tenant, customized

--- Page 359 of 2193 ---
administrators or regular users can't make these changes.
If you're using Microsoft 365 for email, add users and set up mailboxes in Microsoft 365 for
all email users on your domain. Add users after adding the custom domain but before
adding an MX record for Microsoft 365. Adding users before setting up the MX record
ensures that email continues to work without interruption as the email moves from the
previous email provider to Microsoft 365.
Determine if your registrar supports Domain Connect.
Watch: Add a custom domain to Microsoft 365
Check out this video and others on our YouTube channel .
https://learn-video.azurefd.net/vod/player?id=23594aee-6bbd-45d0-8e89-
f00fc78ca495&locale=en-us&embedUrl=%2Fmicrosoft-365%2Fadmin%2Fsetup%2Fadd-
domain
Add a domain
） Important
We recommend that your organization use a custom domain for sending, as it can enhance
your email's appearance, improve its reputation and avoid limits designed to prevent
misuse.
To add a custom domain to Microsoft 365, select the tab based on your registrar's support for
Domain Connect:
Domain Connect - Registrar supports Domain Connect and DNS records are added
automatically.
Manual - Registrar doesn't support Domain Connect and DNS records need to be added
manually.
７ Note
If your registrar supports Domain Connect but you prefer to manually verify domain
ownership and manually add DNS records needed by Microsoft 365 services, select the
Manual tab. If you decide to manually add DNS records, make sure you're familiar with how

--- Page 360 of 2193 ---
to properly add DNS records at your registrar. Incorrect DNS records can cause email and
service outages.
Domain Connect
To add a custom domain to Microsoft 365 by using Domain Connect, follow these steps:
1. Sign in to the Microsoft 365 admin center .
2. In the Microsoft 365 admin center, you can start the process of adding a custom
domain to Microsoft 365 in two different ways:
First time adding a custom domain to Microsoft 365:
a. From the left navigation bar, select ... Show all, and then select Setup .
b. In the Setup page, under Sign-in and security, select Get your custom domain
set up.
c. In the Get your custom domain set up page, select Get Started.
Add a custom domain, add extra custom domains, or continue setting up a
domain:
a. From the left navigation bar, select ... Show all, and then select Settings to
expand it.
b. Under Settings, select Domains .
c. In the Domains page, select + Add domain.
3. In the Domain name textbox of the Add a domain page, enter the new domain name
that you want to add, and then select Use this domain.
4. In the Verify you own your domain page, make sure the name of the displayed
registrar is correct and then select Verify. If your domain is registered at a different
registrar than what is displayed, select choose a different domain host. After selecting
the proper registrar, select Verify.
5. A new window from your registrar opens. Sign in to the registrar and then authorize to
add the TXT DNS record.

--- Page 361 of 2193 ---
７ Note
To make the new window from the registrar appear, make sure of one of the
following two items:
Pop-up blockers are disabled. > - The registrar's URL is added to the pop-up
blocker's allow list. For more information on allowing pop-ups when using
Microsoft Edge, see Block pop-ups in Microsoft Edge .
6. After you add the TXT DNS record and verify domain ownership, you're returned to the
Microsoft 365 admin center window.
7. In the How do you want to connect your domain page, select Continue.
8. In the Add DNS records page, select the Microsoft 365 services that you want DNS
records added for, and then select Add DNS records. Make sure to also expand
Advanced options to view additional Microsoft 365 services that might need DNS
records.
9. A new window from your registrar opens showing the DNS records that are going to be
added. Verify that the DNS records are correct, and then authorize the DNS records to
be added.
10. After you add the DNS records, you're returned to the Microsoft 365 admin center
window.
11. The Domain setup is complete page displays. Select Done to complete adding your
custom domain and DNS records to Microsoft 365.
What happens to my email and website?
After you finish setting up a custom domain, the MX record for your domain is updated to point
to Microsoft 365. All email for your domain starts coming to Microsoft 365.
） Important
As described in the Before you begin section, make sure you add users and set up
mailboxes in Microsoft 365 for everyone who gets email on your domain before adding an

--- Page 362 of 2193 ---
MX record. Adding users before setting up the MX record ensures that when email moves
from the previous email provider to Microsoft 365, users continue to receive their emails.
If you have a website that you use with your business, it keeps working where it is. The Domain
Connect setup steps don't affect your website.
Add or edit DNS records
If Microsoft 365 hosts the domain instead of a non-Microsoft registrar, use the following steps to
add DNS records for items such as a website or non-Microsoft services. If a non-Microsoft
registrar hosts the domain, consult the registrar's documentation and instructions on how to add
DNS records.
1. Sign in to the Microsoft 365 admin center .
2. From the left navigation bar, select ... Show all, and then select Settings to expand it.
3. Under Settings, select Domains .
4. In the Domains page, select a domain.
5. In the page that displays your custom domain, select DNS records.
6. Select + Add records.
７ Note
If + Add records isn't available, a non-Microsoft registrar hosts the domain. The page
displays the registrar next to To manage DNS records for domain, go to your DNS
hosting provider:. Consult the non-Microsoft registrar's documentation and
instructions on how to add DNS records.
7. In the Add a custom DNS record pane that opens, select the type of DNS record to add (A,
CNAME, MX, TXT, SRV, and so on), and then fill out the related fields for the selected type of
DNS record. Once you fill out all of the fields, select Save to create the DNS record.
8. The newly created record should appear under Custom records.
Domain Connect registrars integrated with
Microsoft 365

--- Page 363 of 2193 ---
The following registrars support Domain Connect integration with Microsoft 365:
GoDaddy
Aruba
IONOS
EuroDNS
Cloudflare
WordPress.com
Plesk
SecureServer or WildWestDomains (GoDaddy resellers that use SecureServer DNS hosting)
Examples:
DomainsPricedRight
DomainNow
Add an onmicrosoft.com domain
To add an onmicrosoft.com domain, see Add or replace your onmicrosoft.com fallback domain in
Microsoft 365.
Support
 Tip
Some configuration tasks might be complex to perform. For technical support, follow these
steps:
1. Sign in to the Microsoft 365 admin center .
2. At the bottom right, select Help & Support.
3. In the Support Assistant pane that opens, enter your question.
4. Review the results. If you still have questions, select Contact support.
To learn about your options for contacting support, see Get support for Microsoft 365 for
business.
Related content
Domains FAQ.
What is a domain?.

--- Page 364 of 2193 ---
Domain Connect .
Connect your domain by adding DNS records.
Buy a domain name in Microsoft 365.
Change nameservers to set up Microsoft 365 with any registrar.
Add or replace your onmicrosoft.com fallback domain in Microsoft 365.
Small business help & learning .
Microsoft 365 small business help .
Last updated on 05/08/2026

--- Page 365 of 2193 ---
Buy a domain name in Microsoft 365
This article explains how to buy a new domain name for your Microsoft 365 organization. It
covers where to buy a domain in the Microsoft 365 admin center, including which top-level
domains are available.
Before you start
To add, modify, or remove domains, you must be a Domain Name Administrator of a business or
enterprise plan because these changes affect the whole tenant. Administrators without the
Domain Name Administrator role or regular users can't make these changes.
Buy a domain name in the Microsoft 365 admin center
1. Sign in to the Microsoft 365 admin center .
2. From the left navigation bar, select … Show all, and then select Settings to expand it.
3. Under Settings, select Domains .
4. In the Domains page, select Buy domain.
5. Step through the Domains > Buy domain wizard to complete the purchase of your domain.
You can choose from the following top-level domains for your domain.
.biz
.cloud
.com
.info
.me
.mobi
.net
.org
.tv
.co.uk
.org.uk
Domain privacy

--- Page 366 of 2193 ---
Microsoft offers a free Domain Privacy Subscription when you purchase a domain. This
subscription keeps your contact information private when you register your domain with ICANN.
For more information, see ICANN's website .
Buy a domain from another domain registrar
If you want to buy a domain from a domain registrar, Microsoft recommends using a registrar
that supports automatic setup (Domain Connect):
GoDaddy
Aruba
IONOS
EuroDNS
Cloudflare
WordPress.com
Plesk
SecureServer or WildWestDomains (GoDaddy resellers that use SecureServer DNS hosting)
Examples:
DomainsPricedRight
DomainNow
Transfer your domain to a different domain registrar
If a provider doesn't support all the necessary DNS records, you can transfer your domain to a
different registrar. When you transfer your domain, you change who you send payments to in
order to renew and keep your domain name.
Request the transfer at the registrar that you want to move your domain to. Look on their website
for an option such as Transfer DNS. After they make the changes, it can take a few days to
update across the Internet.
Support
If you don't find what you're looking for, check the Domains FAQ.
 Tip
Some configuration tasks might be complex to perform. For technical support, follow these
steps:

--- Page 367 of 2193 ---
1. Sign in to the Microsoft 365 admin center .
2. At the bottom right, select Help & Support.
3. In the Support Assistant pane that opens, enter your question.
4. Review the results. If you still have questions, select Contact support.
To learn about your options for contacting support, see Get support for Microsoft 365 for
business.
Related content
Add a domain to Microsoft 365.
Domains FAQ.
Update DNS records to keep your website with your current hosting provider.
Small business help & learning .
Last updated on 05/08/2026

--- Page 368 of 2193 ---
Remove a domain from Microsoft 365
You can remove a domain from Microsoft 365 when you want to add it to a different subscription
plan, transfer users to another domain, or cancel your subscription.
Before you begin
Before you remove a domain, make sure that:
The domain isn't the default domain.
No users, shared mailboxes, resource mailboxes, or contacts use the domain.
No Microsoft 365 groups, distribution lists, or teams use the domain.
The domain isn't used for sign-in by any admin accounts.
You understand how email flow changes if the domain has MX records pointing to
Microsoft 365.
Step 1: Move users to another domain
Move users
1. Sign in to the Microsoft 365 admin center .
1. Select Users > Active users.
2. Select the check boxes next to the names of all the users you want to move.
3. At the top of the page, select Change domains.
4. In the Change domains pane, select a different domain.
You need to do this step for yourself, too, if you're on the domain that you want to remove.
When you edit the domain for your account, sign out and sign back in by using the new
domain you chose to continue.
Move yourself
） Important

--- Page 369 of 2193 ---
If you're the only Global Administrator using this domain, make sure at least one other
Global Administrator exists on a different domain before you change your username.
1. Sign in to the Microsoft 365 admin center .
1. In the left navigation bar, select Users > Active Users.
2. In the Active users page, select your account from the list.
3. On the Account tab of the account details pane, select Manage username.
4. In the Manage username pane, choose a different domain, and then select Save Changes.
5. At the upper right, select your account name, and then select Sign Out.
6. Sign in by using the new domain and your same password.
You can also use PowerShell to move users to another domain. For more information, see
Update-MgUser. To set the default domain, use Update-MgDomain.
Step 2: Move groups to another domain
７ Note
Moving groups to another domain includes Microsoft 365 groups, Teams-connected groups,
and distribution lists that use the domain in their email addresses.
1. Sign in to the Microsoft 365 admin center .
1. In the left hand navigation pane, select Teams & groups to expand it, and then select Active
teams & groups.
2. In the Active teams and groups page, make sure Teams & Microsoft 365 groups is
selected, and then select a group.
3. In the group properties pane, make sure the General tab is selected.
4. Under Aliases in the Email addresses column, select Edit.
5. Under Primary email address in the Edit email addresses pane, select the pencil icon.
6. Use the drop-down list to select a different domain and then select Done.

--- Page 370 of 2193 ---
7. In the Edit email addresses pane, select Save, and then close the Edit email addresses pane
by selecting the X in the upper right corner.
8. Repeat these steps for any groups or distribution lists associated with the domain that you
want to remove.
Step 3: Remove the old domain
） Important
If you're removing a custom domain, complete the steps in Remove a custom domain
before continuing.
1. Sign in to the Microsoft 365 admin center .
1. From the left navigation bar, select … Show all, and then select Settings > Domains.
2. In the Domains page, select the domain that you want to remove.
3. In the domain properties pane, select Remove domain.
4. In the Remove domain? pane, select Remove domain.
Remove a custom domain
If you're canceling your subscription and using a custom domain, you need to complete a few
extra steps with your custom domain before canceling your subscription.
Your domain registrar and DNS hosting provider are often the same company, but they can be
different. The registrar manages your domain registration, while the DNS hosting provider
manages the DNS records that route traffic for your domain. To determine who your registrar and
DNS hosting provider are, see Find your domain registrar and DNS hosting provider.
To remove a custom domain from Microsoft 365, select the tab based on where your domain
nameservers (NS) are hosted:
NS at Microsoft 365 - Nameservers (NS) currently point to Microsoft 365. Select this option
even if you plan to move to a new NS provider.
NS at non-Microsoft provider - Nameservers (NS) currently point to a non-Microsoft
provider.

--- Page 371 of 2193 ---
NS at Microsoft 365
If your domain currently points to Microsoft 365 nameservers (NS), follow the steps in this
section to properly move the domain to new NS and service providers.
1. Update your DNS records at both Microsoft 365 and your new NS provider to point to
your new provider's services. For example, point your MX record to your new email
provider at both Microsoft 365 and your new NS provider. For more information on
changing your DNS records at Microsoft 365, see Change DNS records to set up
Microsoft 365 with any domain registrar. For more information on changing your DNS
records at your new NS provider, see your new NS provider's documentation.
2. Once you update the DNS records at both Microsoft 365 and your new NS provider,
change your NS records at your registrar to point to your new NS provider instead of
Microsoft 365. For more information, see Add a custom domain to Microsoft 365.
 Tip
Before moving to your new NS provider, you can configure DNS records at your
new NS provider ahead of time. At your new NS provider, configure your DNS
records to point to your new service provider while leaving the DNS records
unchanged at Microsoft 365.
On the day you want to move your NS records to the new NS provider, update
your DNS records at Microsoft 365 to match the DNS records at your new NS
provider. Once you update the DNS records in Microsoft 365, change your NS
records to point to your new NS provider.
This approach allows you to set up your DNS records at your new NS provider
ahead of time and then switch to the new NS provider when you're ready.
3. Notify your users of the date you plan to switch them to their new service provider
along with the new service provider's name. For example, notify your users that their
email is being moved to a new email provider. Although the switch usually happens
seamlessly, it's a good idea to let your users know about the change.
4. On the day you change the NS and DNS records:
Save user data that is in Microsoft 365. For more information, see Save your data.

--- Page 372 of 2193 ---
If needed, uninstall Microsoft 365 from user's devices. For more information, see
Uninstall Microsoft 365.
How long does it take for a domain to be removed?
It can take as little as five minutes for Microsoft 365 to remove a domain if the domain isn't
referenced in many places such as:
Security groups.
Distribution lists.
Users.
Aliases.
Shared mailboxes.
Resource mailboxes.
Microsoft 365 groups.
If many references use the domain, it can take several hours up to a day for the domain to be
removed.
 Tip
If you have hundreds or thousands of users, use PowerShell to query for all users and then
move them to another domain. Otherwise, it's possible for some users to be missed via the
UI. If not all users are properly moved, the domain can't be removed. For more information,
see the following PowerShell cmdlets:
Query users and move to another domain: Update-MgUser.
Set the default domain: Update-MgDomain.
Still need help?
Check the Domains FAQ if you don't find what you're looking for.
If the process isn't working, you might need to manually remove your domain. For assistance with
manually removing your domain, contact support.
７ Note

--- Page 373 of 2193 ---
You can't remove .onmicrosoft.com domains from your account. When you remove a
domain, user accounts revert to the default .onmicrosoft.com address as the primary
SMTP/UserprincipalName.
 Tip
Some configuration tasks might be complex to perform. For technical support, follow these
steps:
1. Sign in to the Microsoft 365 admin center .
2. At the bottom right, select Help & Support.
3. In the Support Assistant pane that opens, enter your question.
4. Review the results. If you still have questions, select Contact support.
To learn about your options for contacting support, see Get support for Microsoft 365 for
business.
Related content
Domains FAQ.
Switch to a different Microsoft 365 for business plan.
Cancel your subscription.
Last updated on 04/23/2026

--- Page 374 of 2193 ---
Transfer a domain from Microsoft to
another host
You can't transfer a Microsoft 365 domain to another registrar for 60 days after you purchase the
domain from Microsoft.
７ Note
A Whois query shows a Microsoft purchased domain registrar as Wild West Domains LLC.
However, only Microsoft should be contacted about your Microsoft 365 purchased domain.
 Tip
Some configuration tasks might be complex to perform. For technical support, follow these
steps:
1. Sign in to the Microsoft 365 admin center .
2. At the bottom right, select Help & Support.
3. In the Support Assistant pane that opens, enter your question.
4. Review the results. If you still have questions, select Contact support.
To learn about your options for contacting support, see Get support for Microsoft 365 for
business.
Sign in as a global administrator, follow these steps to get a code at Microsoft 365, and then go
to the other domain registrar website to transfer your domain name to the new registrar.
） Important
Microsoft recommends that you use roles with the fewest permissions. Using roles with the
fewest permissions helps improve security for your organization. Global Administrator is a
highly privileged role that should be limited to emergency scenarios when you can't use an
existing role. For more information, see About administrator roles in the Microsoft 365
admin center.

--- Page 375 of 2193 ---
Transfer a domain
1. In the admin center, go to Settings > Domains.
2. On the Domains page, select the Microsoft 365 domain that you want to transfer to another
domain registrar, and then select Check health.
3. At the top of the page, select Transfer domain.
4. On the Choose where to transfer your domain page, select A different registrar, and then
select Next.
5. On the Unlock domain transfer page, select Unlock transfer for <your domain>, and then
select Next.
6. Check your domain transfer contact information, and then select Next.
7. Copy the authorization code and wait about 30 minutes for your domain transfer status to
change to Unlocked for transfer on the Registration tab before you continue with next
steps.
8. Go to the website of the domain registrar you want to manage your domain name going
forward. Follow directions for transferring a domain (search for help on their website). This
usually means paying transfer fees and giving the Authcode to the new registrar so they can
start the transfer. Microsoft emails you to confirm we’ve received the transfer request, and
the domain will transfer within five days.
You can find the authorization code Registration tab on the Domains page in Microsoft
365.
 Tip
.uk domains require a different procedure. Select an IPS tag from the drop-down menu
of mostly used registrars for UK domains to update your IPS Tags to match the
registrar you want to manage your domain going forward. Once the tag changes, the
domain immediately transfers to the new registrar. You'll then need to work with the
new registrar to complete the transfer, likely pay transfer fees and add the transferred
domain to your account with your new registrar.
9. After the transfer is complete, you'll renew your domain at the new domain registrar.

--- Page 376 of 2193 ---
10. To finish the process, go back to the Domains page in the admin center, and then select
Complete domain transfer. This marks the domain not purchased from Microsoft 365, and
will disable the domain subscription. It will not remove the domain from the tenant, and
won't affect existing users and mailboxes on the domain.
７ Note
Microsoft 365 purchased domains aren't eligible for nameserver changes or transferring the
domain between Microsoft 365 organizations. If either of these procedures are required, the
domain registration must be transferred to another registrar.
Last updated on 04/23/2026

--- Page 377 of 2193 ---
Pilot Microsoft 365 from my custom domain
You can pilot Microsoft 365 with these requirements and limitations:
Your current email provider must provide email forwarding.
You must manage your Microsoft 365 DNS records at your DNS hosting provider, rather
than have Microsoft 365 manage these records for you.
To learn more, see Add DNS records to connect your domain.
Free/busy information for users on the other email server is not available.
Admins can't administer all user accounts from a single location.
Users might not be able to use Microsoft 365 spam filtering.
This is recommended for a very small number of users and only applies to the use of email
for a pilot.
Set up a Microsoft 365 pilot
Follow these steps to set up a Microsoft 365 pilot:
Step 1: Sign in to the Microsoft 365 admin center
1. Sign in to the Microsoft 365 admin center with your work or school account.
2. Select Settings > Domains in the left navigation pane.
Step 2: Verify that you own the domain you want to use
1. On the Domains page, select Add domain.
2. Type the domain name in the box, select Use this domain, and then select Continue.
3. Select the services you want to test with your domain, like email and instant messaging.
4. On the Verify domain page, follow the step-by-step instructions, and then select Verify.
It takes between a few minutes and 72 hours for DNS changes to take effect.

--- Page 378 of 2193 ---
When verification is successful, you are asked to modify your DNS records.
Step 3: Mark the domain as shared in Exchange Online
1. In the Exchange admin center, in the Mail flow section, select Accepted domains, and then
select the domain you want to modify.
2. Double-click to open the window, and then select Internal Relay.
3. Select Save.
This setting might require a few minutes to take effect.
Step 4: Unblock the existing email server (optional)
All organizations with cloud mailboxes have default email protection for spam. Anti-spam
protection might block your existing mail server if it detects a high volume of spam being
forwarded by your current mail server. If you trust the spam protection for your other email
provider, you can unblock the server in Microsoft 365.
７ Note
Unblocking your existing email server allows any spam that arrives through your original
server to come to the Microsoft 365 mailboxes, and you can't evaluate how well Microsoft
365 prevents spam.
1. Sign in to Microsoft Defender XDR https://security.microsoft.com/antispam , select
Policies & rules, Click on Threat policies and then select Anti-spam policies.
2. Select Connection filter policy (Default), and click on Edit Edit connection filter policy and
add the mail server IP address for your current email provider in the Always allow messages
from the following IP addresses or address range Section.
Step 5: Create user accounts and set the primary reply-
to address
1. In the Microsoft 365 admin center left navigation, select Users > Active users .
2. Create two test accounts by adding two existing users.

--- Page 379 of 2193 ---
For each account, select + Add a user, and fill out the required information, including the
password method you want to test.
To ensure a user's email stays the same, the User name field must match the user's current
email address.
3. Choose the appropriate license, click Next, and then click Finish adding.
4. Next to User name, select your custom domain name from the drop-down list.
5. Select Create > Close.
Step 6: Configure mail to flow from Microsoft 365 or Office 365
to Email server
There are two steps for this:
1. Configure your Microsoft 365 or Office 365 environment.
2. Set up a connector from Microsoft 365 or Office 365 to your email server.
1. Configure your Microsoft 365 or Office 365 environment
Make sure you have completed the following in Microsoft 365 or Office 365:
1. To set up connectors, you need permissions assigned before you can begin. To check what
permissions you need, see the Microsoft 365 and Office 365 connectors entry in the Feature
permissions in Exchange Online topic.
2. If you want Microsoft 365 to relay email from your email servers to the Internet, either:
Use a certificate configured with a subject name that matches an accepted domain in
Microsoft 365 or Office 365. We recommend that your certificate's common name or
subject alternative name matches the primary SMTP domain for your organization. For
details, see Prerequisites for your on-premises email environment.
-OR-
Make sure that all your organization sender domains and subdomains are configured
as accepted domains in Microsoft 365 or Office 365.
For more information about defining accepted domains, see Manage accepted domains in
Exchange Online and Enable mail flow for subdomains in Exchange Online.

--- Page 380 of 2193 ---
3. Decide whether you want to use mail flow rules (also known as transport rules) or domain
names to deliver mail from Microsoft 365 or Office 365 to your email servers. Most
businesses choose to deliver mail for all accepted domains. For more information, see
Scenario: Conditional mail routing in Exchange Online.
７ Note
You can set up mail flow rules as described in Mail flow rule actions in Exchange Online. For
example, you might want to use mail flow rules with connectors if your mail is currently
directed via distribution lists to multiple sites.
2. Set up a connector from Microsoft 365 or Office 365 to your
email server
To create a connector in Microsoft 365 or Office 365, select Admin > Exchange to go to the
Exchange admin center. Next, select mail flow > Connectors .
Set up connectors using the wizard.
To start the wizard, click the plus symbol +. On the first screen, choose From Office 365 and To
Your Organization Mail server.
Click Next, and follow the instructions in the wizard. Click the Help or Learn More links if you
need more information. The wizard will guide you through setup. At the end, make sure your
connector validates. If the connector does not validate, double-click the message displayed to
get more information, and see Validate connectors for help resolving issues.
Step 7: Update DNS records at your DNS hosting provider
Sign in to your DNS hosting provider's website, and follow the instructions at Add DNS records to
connect your domain.
Make the following two exceptions:
Do not create a new MX record or change your existing MX record.
If you already have a Sender Policy Framework (SPF) record for your previous email
provider, instead of creating a new SPF (TXT) record for Exchange Online, add
"include:spf.protection.outlook.com" to the current TXT record.

--- Page 381 of 2193 ---
For example, "v=spf1 mx include:adatum.com include:spf.protection.outlook.com ~all".
If you don't have an SPF record, modify the one recommended by Microsoft 365 to include
the domain for your current email provider, and add spf.protection.outlook.com. This
authorizes outgoing messages from both email systems.
Step 8: Set up email forwarding at your current provider
At your current email provider, set up forwarding for your users email accounts to your
onmicrosoft.com domain:
Forward User A mailbox to usera@yourcompany.onmicrosoft.com
Forward User B mailbox to userb@yourcompany.onmicrosoft.com
When you complete this step, all email sent to usera@yourcompany.com and
userb@yourcompany.com is available in Microsoft 365.
７ Note
Contact your current email provider for the exact steps to set up email forwarding.
You don't need to keep a copy of messages at the current email provider.
Most providers forward email by leaving the Reply-to address of the sender intact so that
replies go to the original sender.
Step 9: Test mail flow
1. Sign in to Outlook Web App using the credentials for User A.
2. Perform these tests:
Test local Microsoft email by sending an email, for example, to User B. The email is
delivered immediately. In this scenario, the message is not routed to the mailbox for
User B on your original server because the Microsoft 365 mailbox is local.
Test email to a user on the existing email system by sending an email, for example, to
User C. The email is delivered to the mailbox for User C on your original mail server.
Verify that forwarding is set up properly from an outside account, or from an
employee email account on the existing email system. For example, from the original

--- Page 382 of 2193 ---
server account for User C or a Hotmail account, send User A an email and verify that it
arrives in the Microsoft 365 mailbox for User A.
Step 10: Move mailbox contents
Because you are moving only two test users, and User A and User B are both using Outlook, you
can move the email by opening the old .PST file in the new Outlook profile and copying the
messages, calendar items, contacts, and so on. For more information, see Import email, contacts,
and calendar from an Outlook .pst file .
After they're imported to the appropriate locations in the Microsoft 365 mailbox, the items can
be accessed from any device, anywhere.
More resources
Enhanced Filtering for Connectors in Exchange Online
Last updated on 04/23/2026

--- Page 383 of 2193 ---
Add or replace a onmicrosoft.com fallback
domain in Microsoft 365
When you sign up for Microsoft 365, Microsoft provides an onmicrosoft.com domain. The
onmicrosoft.com domain is your fallback domain. Microsoft provides the fallback domain in case
you don't own a domain or don't want to connect a domain to Microsoft 365. An example of a
fallback domain is:
） Important
To prevent misuse and help improve deliverability of customer email, we recommend that
onmicrosoft.com domains should only be used for testing purposes, not sending regular
email.
Starting October 15, 2025, we are introducing limits that might restrict your Microsoft 365
environment from sending to more than 100 external recipients per 24 hours, see: Limiting
Onmicrosoft Domain Usage for Sending Emails .
When you sign up for Microsoft 365, Microsoft provides an onmicrosoft.com domain - your
fallback domain - in case you don't own a domain, or don't want to connect it to Microsoft 365
(for example, tailspintoys.onmicrosoft.com). Your fallback domain is used by default in:
Use your fallback domain by default in:
Usernames and email addresses.
Microsoft 365 teams and groups email aliases.
Automatic domain dependency moves.
The fallback domain serves as a default email routing address for your Microsoft 365
environment. When you set up a user with a mailbox, email routes to the fallback domain. If you
use a custom domain, for example, tailspintoys.com, and you delete that custom domain from
your Microsoft 365 environment, the fallback domain ensures that your user's email is
successfully routed.
You can change your fallback domain in the Microsoft 365 admin center. Common reasons
customers change their fallback domain include:

--- Page 384 of 2193 ---
They didn't know the company name to use when they first signed up for Microsoft 365.
Now that they know the company name, they want their users to have sign in account
names that are appropriate.
They want to change how their SharePoint URLs look when they create a new site.
SharePoint URLs in your Microsoft 365 environment are created based on your fallback
domain name. If you didn't use the correct company name when you first signed up, your
SharePoint URLs for your sites continue to use that name when you create new SharePoint
sites.
While you can add more onmicrosoft.com domains, you can use only one onmicrosoft.com
domain as your fallback domain. The steps in this article describe how to:
Create a new onmicrosoft.com domain.
Assign it as your fallback domain.
２ Warning
You're limited to a total of five onmicrosoft.com domains in your Microsoft 365 environment.
Once created, onmicrosoft.com domains can't be deleted.
Before you begin
To add, modify, or remove domains, you must be a Domain Name Administrator of a business or
enterprise plan . These changes affect the whole tenant. Custom admin roles or regular users
can't make these changes.
Add a new onmicrosoft.com domain
To add a new onmicrosoft.com domain, follow these steps:
1. Sign in to the Microsoft 365 admin center .
2. From the left navigation bar, select … Show all, and then select Settings to expand it.
3. Under Settings, select Domains .
4. In the Domains page, select your onmicrosoft.com default domain.

--- Page 385 of 2193 ---

5. On the domain properties page, in the About this domain section, select Add onmicrosoft
domain.

6. In the Add onmicrosoft domain page, in the Domain name box, type the name for your
new onmicrosoft.com domain.

--- Page 386 of 2193 ---

） Important
Make sure to verify the spelling and accuracy of the domain name you entered. You're
limited to five onmicrosoft.com domains, and currently you can't delete them once you
create them.
7. Select Add domain. When you add the domain successfully, you see a message stating that
it was successfully added.

Make your new onmicrosoft.com domain your
fallback domain
 Tip

--- Page 387 of 2193 ---
Before changing your fallback domain to a new onmicrosoft.com domain, consider changing
your onmicrosoft.com SharePoint domain. Creating another onmicrosoft.com domain and
using it as your fallback domain doesn't rename SharePoint in Microsoft 365. Your existing
SharePoint and OneDrive URLs stay the same.
You can change your.onmicrosoft.com SharePoint domain through the PowerShell steps
provided in SharePoint domain rename preview.
After you create your new onmicrosoft.com domain, change your fallback domain:
1. Sign in to the Microsoft 365 admin center .
2. From the left navigation bar, select … Show all, and then select Settings to expand it.
3. Under Settings, select Domains .
4. In the Domains page, select the new onmicrosoft.com domain that you created.

5. On the domain's property page, select Make fallback domain.

--- Page 388 of 2193 ---

6. A message displays on the page stating that your fallback domain changed to the new
domain.

Support
 Tip
Some configuration tasks might be complex to perform. For technical support, follow these
steps:
1. Sign in to the Microsoft 365 admin center .
2. At the bottom right, select Help & Support.
3. In the Support Assistant pane that opens, enter your question.
4. Review the results. If you still have questions, select Contact support.

--- Page 389 of 2193 ---
To learn about your options for contacting support, see Get support for Microsoft 365 for
business.
Related content
Domains FAQ.
What is a domain?.
Buy a domain name in Microsoft 365.
Connect your domain by adding DNS records.
Change nameservers to set up Microsoft 365 with any domain registrar.
Small business help & learning .
Last updated on 04/23/2026

--- Page 390 of 2193 ---
Domains FAQ
This article contains answers to frequently asked questions about domains in Microsoft 365.
What is MX priority?
Mail is delivered to the mail exchange server with the lowest preference number (highest
priority), so the MX record you use for mail routing should have the lowest preference number,
typically 0 or High priority.
When you create an MX record, most DNS hosting providers require you to set the
preference number.
Some label the box preference, and some label it priority.
Some require a number, and some ask you to select Low, Medium, or High.
If you only have one MX record, any value is fine for priority or preference.
If you have more than one, make sure the MX record for mail routing is higher priority than
the one used for validating that you own the domain.
How can I validate SPF records for my domain?
It's important that you have or create only one TXT record for SPF. If you already have an SPF
record, you should append the new Microsoft 365 values to it, rather than create a new one. After
you add or update your SPF record for Microsoft Email, use one of the following tools to make
sure the syntax is correct:
SPF Record Testing Tools
SPF Surveyor
Dig web interface
What is a domain name?
A domain is a unique name that appears after the @ sign in email addresses, and after www. in
web addresses. It typically takes the form of your organization's name and a standard Internet

--- Page 391 of 2193 ---
suffix, such as yourbusiness.com or stateuniversity.edu.
Using a custom domain like contoso.com with Microsoft 365 can help build credibility and
recognition for your brand. It might also enhance your email reputation, depending on our email
provider reducing the likelihood of your emails being marked as spam.
You can buy a domain in Microsoft 365 and Microsoft 365 can set it up automatically, or you can
buy or bring one you already own from a domain registrar.
Is it possible to connect a domain with
Personal or Family offerings?
As a benefit of your Microsoft 365 Family or Microsoft 365 Personal subscription, you can create a
personalized email address that is associated with your Outlook.com mailbox, for example,
yourname@example.com. At the moment, we only support connecting domains managed by
GoDaddy with Outlook.com. For more information, see Get a personalized email address in
Microsoft 365 .
What happens if my DNS provider doesn't
support certain record types?
If you manage your own DNS records and your DNS host doesn't support all the DNS records
that Microsoft 365 needs, some Microsoft 365 features don't work. We recommend that you
transfer your domain to a registrar that supports all required DNS records.
Providers that support all required DNS records:
Aruba.it
Cloudflare
Dynadot
eNomCentral
Europe Registry
GoDaddy
Hover

--- Page 392 of 2193 ---
INWX.com
MyHosting.com
Name.com
Nearly Free Speech
Nettica
Network Information Center (NIC)
Network Solutions
Register.com
How do I set or change the default domain in
Microsoft 365?
You must have at least one custom domain that adds to Microsoft 365 before you can choose a
default domain.
1. In the admin center, go to the Settings > Domains page.
1. On the Domains page, select the domain you want to set as the default for new email
addresses.
2. Select Set as default.
For information about adding or replacing an onmicrosoft.com domain, see Add or replace your
onmicrosoft.com domain.
７ Note
Changing the default domain affects new accounts only. This change doesn't affect user
credentials or their access to applications or services. Removing or changing a domain on an
account can affect mail, online storage, and sign-in credentials.
Can I add custom subdomains or multiple
domains to Microsoft 365?

--- Page 393 of 2193 ---
Yes. To add subdomains, you must manage your own DNS settings at your registrar's website. If
you're letting Microsoft manage your DNS settings with NS records, or if you bought the domain
from Microsoft, you can't add subdomains.
Typically, you could add up to 5,000 domains to your Microsoft 365 subscription.
For example, you could add the domains contoso.com and contosomarketing.com, and then add
the subdomains www.contoso.com, www.partners.contoso.com,
www.marketing.partners.contoso.com, and so on.
When you add a subdomain, the subdomain is automatically verified based on the parent
domain that's being verified.
When you add multiple domains to Microsoft 365, you can host any of the services, such as
email, on any of the domains you add. *When you change your email to Microsoft 365 by
updating a domain's MX record, ALL email sent to that domain starts coming to Microsoft 365. *
７ Note
If you added a contoso.com domain to a Microsoft 365 subscription, you can also add the
subdomain xyz.contoso.com to another Microsoft 365 organization. When adding the
subdomain, you're prompted to add a TXT record in the DNS hosting provider.
How do I transfer a domain from Microsoft 365
to another host?
For the procedure to transfer a domain, see Transfer a domain from Microsoft to another host.
How do I pilot Microsoft 365 from my
custom domain?
For the procedure to pilot Microsoft 365 email functionality from a custom domain to a Microsoft
365 mailbox, see Pilot Microsoft 365 from my custom domain.
Why do I have an "onmicrosoft.com" domain?
Microsoft 365 creates a domain for you, like contoso.onmicrosoft.com, when you sign up with the
service. The user ID that you create when you sign up includes the domain, like

--- Page 394 of 2193 ---
alan@contoso.onmicrosoft.com.
If you want to have your email look like alan@contoso.com, buy the domain. If you already own a
domain, follow the steps in Add your users and domain to Microsoft 365.
You can replace your onmicrosoft.com domain after sign-up. While you can't rename or
remove an existing onmicrosoft.com domain, you can create a new one and make it your
default onmicrosoft.com domain (your "fallback domain"). For example, if the initial domain
you chose was fourthcoffee.onmicrosoft.com, if needed you can create a new
onmicrosoft.com domain called fourthcoffeecorp.onmicrosoft.com and set it to be your
fallback domain.
You might not be able to change your SharePoint domain name. Your SharePoint domain
name is based on your onmicrosoft.com domain name. The ability to change the SharePoint
domain name is available for organizations whose total number of SharePoint sites and
OneDrive accounts is fewer than 10,000. If you have more sites than 10,000 accounts, a
limited invite-based preview is available.
You can't remove your onmicrosoft.com domain. Microsoft 365 needs to keep the
onmicrosoft.com domain because it's used behind the scenes for your subscription.
However, you don't have to use the domain yourself after you add a custom domain. If you
choose to create a new onmicrosoft.com domain, it can't be removed. You're limited to five
onmicrosoft.com domains in your Microsoft 365 environment, so make sure to check for
spelling and to assess your need if you choose to create a new one.
You can keep using the initial onmicrosoft.com domain even after you add your domain. It still
works for email and other services, so it's your choice.
How do I verify my nonprofit or
education status?
1. To start the wizard, select Setup in the admin center. (Be sure to sign in to Microsoft 365
first.)
2. To become the admin for your school, select the Become an admin option in Microsoft 365.
3. Follow the prompt to add a TXT DNS record at the DNS host website for your domain.
Why? Because by signing in at the DNS host and adding a record for your domain, you
prove to Microsoft 365 that you own the domain name.

--- Page 395 of 2193 ---
4. After you add the record, you'll go back to the Microsoft 365 portal and confirm that you
added it, so Microsoft 365 can check.
Have a nonprofit and want to get Microsoft 365? Make sure your organization qualifies and
then sign up for the service.
Want to know more about becoming the admin for your school? Learn all about it.
How can I create a website for my business?
Watch a short video: Create your business website about using a web hosting provider to
create a website for your domain.
Microsoft 365 doesn't include a public website for your business. To set one up, consider using a
web hosting company like GoDaddy, Wix, or WordPress.
1. Search for a web hosting provider where you can build your website.
2. You might find it easiest to choose the website builder at the same company where your
domain name is registered.
3. Design your business website, making sure to include your business logo, business purpose,
text, images, and links.
4. To integrate the website with Microsoft 365, you can add your business email to the website
and a link to Microsoft Teams, SharePoint, or other collaboration tool.
5. Make sure to connect your website to your domain name, which you're also using for email
on Microsoft 365.

--- Page 396 of 2193 ---
Connect your domain by adding
DNS records
If you purchased a domain from a non-Microsoft registrar, you can connect it to Microsoft 365 by
updating the DNS records at your registrar. After you add DNS records at your registrar, your
domain stays registered with the registrar that you purchased the domain from. However,
Microsoft 365 can use the domain for its various services such as your domain email addresses.
７ Note
A registrar is also known as a DNS hosting provider.
If you don't add a custom domain to Microsoft 365, your organization can instead use the
onmicrosoft.com domain for email addresses until a custom domain is added. It's important to
add your custom domain before you add users so you don't have to set up users twice.
If you want to change the email domain of existing user accounts, follow the steps described in
Change your email address to use your custom domain using the Microsoft 365 admin center.
For more information on domains, see Domains FAQ.
Registrars and Domain Connect
Before you connect your domain to Microsoft 365 by adding DNS records, you need to
determine the registrar that hosts your domain. Additionally, you need to determine if your
registrar supports Domain Connect . Domain Connect allows Microsoft 365 to automatically
perform the following tasks:
Confirm domain ownership.
Add DNS records required for Microsoft 365 services.
If a registrar doesn't support Domain Connect, you need to manually confirm domain ownership
and add DNS records by signing in to your registrar and manually adding the appropriate DNS
records.
To find your registrar, see Find your domain registrar. Once you determine your registrar, consult
with the registrar to see if they support Domain Connect.

--- Page 397 of 2193 ---
For instructions on how to manually add DNS records at specific registrars, see the following
articles:
Connect your DNS records at IONOS to Microsoft 365.
Connect your DNS records at 123-reg.co.uk to Microsoft 365.
Connect your DNS records at Amazon Web Services (AWS) to Microsoft 365.
Connect your DNS records at Cloudflare to Microsoft 365.
Connect your DNS records at GoDaddy to Microsoft 365.
Connect your DNS records at Namecheap to Microsoft 365.
Connect your DNS records at Network Solutions to Microsoft 365.
Connect your DNS records at OVH to Microsoft 365.
Connect your DNS records at web.com to Microsoft 365.
Connect your DNS records at Wix to Microsoft 365.
Create DNS records for Microsoft using Windows-based DNS.
Step 1: Add a domain and verify domain ownership
First, add a custom domain to Microsoft 365 and verify domain ownership. For detailed
instructions on how to add a custom domain to Microsoft 365, see Add a domain to Microsoft
365.
Step 2: Connect to Microsoft services by adding
DNS records
When you add a custom domain as part of Step 1: Add a domain and verify domain ownership,
the wizard prompts you to add DNS entries for Microsoft 365 services, including email. However,
if you skip adding DNS entries when adding the custom domain, you can add them later.
The following sections describe how to add the various DNS records for some of the Microsoft
365 services.
Add an MX record and DNS records for email (Outlook,
Exchange Online)
） Important
Before you begin, add users and set up mailboxes in Microsoft 365 for all email users on
your domain. Add users before updating an MX record for Microsoft 365 to ensure that

--- Page 398 of 2193 ---
email continues to work without interruption as the email moves from the previous email
provider to Microsoft 365.
When you update your domain's MX record, all new email for anyone who uses your domain
is sent to Microsoft 365. Any existing email stays at your previous email host, unless you
decide to migrate email and contacts to Microsoft 365.
To add the DNS records needed for Microsoft 365 email services, select the tab based on your
registrar's support for Domain Connect:
Domain Connect - Registrar supports Domain Connect and DNS records are added
automatically.
Manual - Registrar doesn't support Domain Connect and DNS records need to be added
manually.
Domain Connect
To add an MX record and other supporting email DNS records for use with email in
Microsoft 365 (Outlook, Exchange Online), follow these steps:
1. Sign in to the Microsoft 365 admin center .
2. From the left navigation bar, select … Show all, and then select Settings to expand it.
3. Under Settings, select Domains .
4. In the Domains page, select a domain.
5. In the page that displays your custom domain, select DNS records, and then select
Manage DNS.
6. The How do you want to connect your domain? wizard starts. Select Continue.
7. In the Add DNS records page, make sure Exchange and Exchange Online Protection is
selected.
8. For additional email spam protection, select Advanced options, and then select
DomainKeys Identified Mail (DKIM). DKIM DNS records are optional. For more
information about DKIM, see Help prevent email spam (Outlook, Exchange Online) by
adding appropriate DNS records in this article.
9. Once the desired email services are selected, select Add DNS records.

--- Page 399 of 2193 ---
10. A new window from your registrar opens showing the DNS records that are going to be
added, including the MX record. Verify that the DNS records are correct, and then
authorize the DNS records to be added.
） Important
If an MX record already exists for the previous email provider, take one of the
following two actions to ensure that email starts getting delivered to Microsoft
365:
Remove any existing MX records pointing to a previous email provider.
Set the MX record priority for the previous email provider to a lower priority
than the MX record for Microsoft 365.
Depending on the registrar, the registrar might offer to automatically delete the
existing MX record via Domain Connect. If you don't want the existing MX record
to be automatically deleted, add the required email DNS records manually at your
registrar. Select the Manual tab instead to add MX records manually.
11. After you add DNS records at the registrar, the browser returns you to the Microsoft
365 admin center.
12. The Domain setup is complete page displays. Select Done to complete adding DNS
records to Microsoft 365.
Add CNAME and SRV records to connect other Microsoft 365
services (Microsoft Teams, Exchange Online, Microsoft Intune)
Select the tab based on your registrar's support for Domain Connect:
Domain Connect - Registrar supports Domain Connect and DNS records are added
automatically.
Manual - Registrar doesn't support Domain Connect and DNS records need to be added
manually.
Domain Connect

--- Page 400 of 2193 ---
To add CNAME and SRV records required by Microsoft 365 services such as Microsoft Teams,
Exchange Online, or Microsoft Intune:
1. Sign in to the Microsoft 365 admin center .
2. From the left navigation bar, select … Show all, and then select Settings to expand it.
3. Under Settings, select Domains .
4. In the Domains page, select a domain.
5. In the page that displays your custom domain, select DNS records, and then select
Manage DNS.
6. The How do you want to connect your domain? wizard starts. Select Continue.
7. In the Add DNS records page, select Advanced options. Advanced options displays all
additional available Microsoft 365 services.
8. Select the Microsoft 365 services that need DNS records added, and then select Add
DNS records. For example:
For Microsoft Intune, select Intune and Mobile Device Management for
Microsoft 365.
To add DKIM records to reduce email spam, select DomainKeys Identified Mail
(DKIM).
9. A new window from your registrar opens showing the DNS records that are going to be
added. Verify that the DNS records are correct, and then authorize the DNS records to
be added.
10. Once the DNS records are added, you're returned to the Microsoft 365 admin center
window.
11. The Domain setup is complete page displays. Select Done to complete adding the
CNAME and SRV records to Microsoft 365.
Help prevent email spam (Outlook, Exchange Online) by adding
appropriate DNS records

--- Page 401 of 2193 ---
Sender Policy Framework, better known as SPF, helps prevent email spam. SPF is designed to help
prevent spoofing. Activate SPF on a domain by adding a TXT record to the domain's DNS. To set
up an SPF TXT record for use with Microsoft 365 email services, see Add an MX record and DNS
records for email (Outlook, Exchange Online) in this article.
Although SPF is designed to help prevent spoofing, some spoofing techniques bypass SPF. To
protect against these threats, after setting up the SPF record, also set up DomainKeys Identified
Mail (DKIM) and Domain-based Message Authentication, Reporting, and Conformance (DMARC)
for Microsoft 365. For more information on DKIM and DMARC, see the following two articles:
Use DKIM to validate outbound email sent from your domain in Microsoft 365.
Use DMARC to validate email in Microsoft 365.
To set up DKIM for use with Microsoft 365 email services, see Add an MX record and DNS records
for email (Outlook, Exchange Online) in this article.
SRV record field restrictions and workarounds
Some registrars restrict field values within SRV records. The following sections describe some of
those restrictions and their workarounds.
Host Name/Alias can't be set to @
If your registrar doesn't allow setting this field to @, leave it blank. Use this approach only when
your registrar has separate fields for Service and Protocol. If your registrar doesn't have separate
fields for Service and Protocol, see Service and Protocol fields aren't available in this article.
Service and Protocol fields aren't available
If your registrar doesn't provide separate Service and Protocol fields for SRV records, you must
specify the Service and Protocol values in the record's Host Name/Alias field. To add these
values, create a single string, separating the values with a dot. For example, for the following
values:
ﾉ Expand table
DNS record field Value
Type SRV (Service)
Host Name or Alias @

--- Page 402 of 2193 ---
DNS record field Value
Service _sipfederationtls
Protocol TCP
Target sipfed.online.lync.com
Priority 100
Weight 1
Port 5061
TTL 3600 (1 hour)
enter the following value in the Host Name/Alias field instead of @:
ﾉ Expand table
DNS record field Value
Type SRV (Service)
Host Name or Alias _sipfederationtls._tcp
Target sipfed.online.lync.com
Priority 100
Weight 1
Port 5061
TTL 3600 (1 hour)
Priority, Weight, and Port fields aren't available
If your registrar doesn't provide the Priority, Weight, and Port fields for SRV records, you must
specify them in the SRV record's Target field. To add these values, create a single string,
separating the values with spaces. The values must be included in this order:
1. Priority.
2. Weight.
3. Port.
4. Target.
For example, for the following values:

--- Page 403 of 2193 ---
ﾉ Expand table
DNS record field Value
Type SRV (Service)
Host Name or Alias @
Service _sipfederationtls
Protocol TCP
Target sipfed.online.lync.com
Priority 100
Weight 1
Port 5061
TTL 3600 (1 hour)
enter the following value in the Target field:
ﾉ Expand table
DNS record field Value
Type SRV (Service)
Host Name or Alias @
Service _sipfederationtls
Protocol TCP
Target 100 1 5061 sipfed.online.lync.com
TTL 3600 (1 hour)
２ Warning
Some registrars require that the string entered into the Target field end with a dot (.).
For example:
ﾉ Expand table

--- Page 404 of 2193 ---
DNS record field Value
Type SRV (Service)
Host Name or Alias @
Service _sipfederationtls
Protocol TCP
Target 100 1 5061 sipfed.online.lync.com.
TTL 3600 (1 hour)
Check with your registrar to verify if ending with a dot (.) is required.
Depending on your registrar, the Target field might have a different name such as:
Content.
IP Address.
Target Host.
Value.
Support
 Tip
Some configuration tasks might be complex to perform. For technical support, follow these
steps:
1. Sign in to the Microsoft 365 admin center .
2. At the bottom right, select Help & Support.
3. In the Support Assistant pane that opens, enter your question.
4. Review the results. If you still have questions, select Contact support.
To learn about your options for contacting support, see Get support for Microsoft 365 for
business.
Related content
Help and learning for small business .
Domains FAQ.

--- Page 405 of 2193 ---
Add a domain to Microsoft 365.
Change nameservers to set up Microsoft 365 with any domain registrar.
Find and fix issues after adding your domain or DNS records (article).
Manage domains (link page).
Last updated on 04/23/2026

--- Page 406 of 2193 ---
Connect your DNS records at IONOS to
Microsoft 365
Check the Domains FAQ if you don't find what you're looking for.
If IONOS is your DNS hosting provider, follow the steps in this article to verify your domain and
set up DNS records for email, Skype for Business Online, and so on.
 Tip
Some configuration tasks might be complex to perform. For technical support, follow these
steps:
1. Sign in to the Microsoft 365 admin center .
2. At the bottom right, select Help & Support.
3. In the Support Assistant pane that opens, enter your question.
4. Review the results. If you still have questions, select Contact support.
To learn about your options for contacting support, see Get support for Microsoft 365 for
business.
Before you begin
You have two options for setting up DNS records for your domain:
Use Domain Connect If you haven't set up your domain with another email service provider,
use the Domain Connect steps to automatically verify and set up your new domain to use
with Microsoft 365.
OR
Use the manual steps Verify your domain using the following manual steps and choose
when and which records to add to your domain registrar. This allows you to set up new MX
(mail) records, for example, at your convenience.
Use Domain Connect to verify and set up your domain
Follow these steps to automatically verify and set up your IONOS domain with Microsoft 365:

--- Page 407 of 2193 ---
1. In the Microsoft 365 admin center, select Settings > Domains , and select the domain you
want to set up.
2. Select the three dots (more actions) > choose Start setup.
3. On the How do you want to connect your domain? page, select Continue.
4. On the Add DNS records page, select Add DNS records.
5. On the IONOS sign-in page, sign in to your account, and select Connect, and Allow.
This completes your domain setup for Microsoft 365.

--- Page 408 of 2193 ---
Create DNS records with manual setup
After you add these records at IONOS, your domain will be set up to work with Microsoft
services.
Ｕ Caution
IONOS doesn't allow a domain to have both an MX record and a top-level Autodiscover
CNAME record. This limits the ways in which you can configure Exchange Online for
Microsoft. There's a workaround, but we recommend employing it only if you already have
experience with creating subdomains at IONOS. If despite this service limitation you choose
to manage your own Microsoft DNS records at IONOS, follow the steps in this article to
verify your domain and to set up DNS records for email, Skype for Business Online, and so
on.
７ Note
When creating or updating DNS records, it typically takes about 15 minutes for DNS
changes to take effect. However, it can occasionally take longer for a DNS record change to
update across the Internet's DNS system. If you're having trouble with mail flow or other
issues after adding DNS records, see Find and fix issues after adding your domain or DNS
records.
Add a TXT record for verification
Before you use your domain with Microsoft, we have to make sure that you own it. Your ability to
sign in to your account at your domain registrar and create the DNS record proves to Microsoft
that you own the domain.
７ Note
This record is used only to verify that you own your domain; it doesn't affect anything else.
You can delete it later, if you like.
1. To get started, go to your domains page at IONOS by using this link . Follow the prompt
to sign in.
2. Select Menu, and then select Domains and SSL.

--- Page 409 of 2193 ---
3. Under Actions for the domain that you want to update, select the gear control, and then
select DNS.
4. Select Add record.
5. Select the TXT section.

--- Page 410 of 2193 ---
6. On the Add a DNS record page, in the boxes for the new record, type or copy and paste the
values from the following table.
ﾉ Expand table
Host name Value TTL
(Leave this field MS=ms XXXXXXXX 1
blank) NOTE: This is an example. Use your specific Destination or Points to hour
Address value here, from the table. How do I find this?
7. Select Save.
Wait a few minutes before you continue, so that the record you just created can update
across the Internet.

--- Page 411 of 2193 ---
Now that you've added the record at your domain registrar's site, go back to Microsoft 365 and
request Microsoft 365 to look for the record. When Microsoft finds the correct TXT record, your
domain is verified.
To verify the record in Microsoft 365:
1. In the admin center, go to the Settings > Domains .
2. On the Domains page, select the domain that you're verifying, and select Start setup.
3. Select Continue.
4. On the Verify domain page, select Verify.
７ Note
When creating or updating DNS records, it typically takes about 15 minutes for DNS
changes to take effect. However, it can occasionally take longer for a DNS record change to
update across the Internet's DNS system. If you're having trouble with mail flow or other
issues after adding DNS records, see Find and fix issues after adding your domain or DNS
records.
Add an MX record so email for your domain will come
to Microsoft
1. To get started, go to your domains page at IONOS by using this link . Follow the prompt
to sign in.
2. Select Menu, and then select Domains and SSL.

--- Page 412 of 2193 ---
3. Under Actions for the domain that you want to update, select the gear control, and then
select DNS.
4. Select Add record.
5. Select the MX section.

--- Page 413 of 2193 ---
6. On the Add a DNS record page, in the boxes for the new record, type or copy and paste the
values from the following table.
ﾉ Expand table
Host Points to Priority TTL
name
@ <domain-key>.mail.protection.outlook.com 10 1
NOTE: Get your <domain-key> from your For more information about hour
Microsoft account. How do I find this? priority, see What is MX
priority?
7. Select Save.

--- Page 414 of 2193 ---
8. If there are any MX records already listed, delete each of them by selecting the Delete
record trash can on the Add record page.
Add the CNAME record required for Microsoft
1. To get started, go to your domains page at IONOS by using this link . Follow the prompt
to sign in.

--- Page 415 of 2193 ---
2. Select Menu, and then select Domains and SSL.
3. Under Actions for the domain that you want to update, select the gear control, and then
select DNS.
Now you'll create two subdomains and set an Alias value for each.
(This is required because IONOS supports only one top-level CNAME record, but Microsoft
requires several CNAME records.)
First, you'll create the Autodiscover subdomain.
4. Select Subdomains.

--- Page 416 of 2193 ---
5. Select Add subdomain.
6. In the Add subdomain box for the new subdomain, type or copy and paste only the Add
subdomain value from the following table. (You'll add the Alias value in a later step.)
ﾉ Expand table
Add subdomain Alias
autodiscover autodiscover.outlook.com
7. Under Actions for the autodiscover subdomain that you created, select the gear control,
and then select DNS from the drop-down list.
8. Select Add record, and then select the CNAME section.
9. In the Alias: box, type or copy and paste only the Alias value from the following table.
ﾉ Expand table

--- Page 417 of 2193 ---
Add subdomain Alias
autodiscover autodiscover.outlook.com
10. Select Save.
Add a TXT record for SPF to help prevent email spam
） Important
You can't have more than one TXT record for SPF for a domain. If your domain has more
than one SPF record, you'll get email errors, and delivery and spam classification issues. If
you already have an SPF record for your domain, don't create a new one for Microsoft.
Instead, add the required Microsoft values to the current record so that you have a single
SPF record that includes both sets of values. Need examples? Check out these External
Domain Name System records for Microsoft. To validate your SPF record, you can use one
of theseSPF validation tools.
1. To get started, go to your domains page at IONOS by using this link . Follow the prompt
to sign in.
2. Select Menu, and then select Domains and SSL.
3. Under Actions for the domain that you want to update, select the gear control, and then
select DNS.

--- Page 418 of 2193 ---
4. Select Add record.
5. Select the SPF (TXT) section.

--- Page 419 of 2193 ---
6. In the boxes for the new record, type or copy and paste the values from the following table.
ﾉ Expand table
Type Host name Value TTL
SPF (Leave this field v=spf1 include:spf.protection.outlook.com -all 1
(TXT) empty.) Note: We recommend copying and pasting this entry, so that all hour
of the spacing stays correct.
7. Select Save.
Advanced option: Skype for Business
Only select this option if your organization uses Skype for Business for online communication
services like chat, conference calls, and video calls, in addition to Microsoft Teams. Skype needs
four records: Two SRV records for user-to-user communication, and two CNAME records to sign-
in and connect users to the service.
Add two more CNAME records

--- Page 420 of 2193 ---
1. To get started, go to your domains page at IONOS by using this link . Sign in.
2. Select Menu, and then select Domains and SSL.
3. Under Actions for the domain that you want to update, select the gear control, and then
select DNS.
Now you'll create two subdomains and set an Alias value for each.
(This is required because IONOS supports only one top-level CNAME record, but Microsoft
requires several CNAME records.)
First, you'll create the lyncdiscover subdomain.
4. Select Subdomains.

--- Page 421 of 2193 ---
5. Select Add subdomain.
6. In the Add subdomain box for the new subdomain, type or copy and paste only the Add
subdomain value from the following table. (You'll add the Alias value in a later step.)
ﾉ Expand table
Add subdomain Alias
lyncdiscover webdir.online.lync.com
7. Under Actions for the lyncdiscover subdomain that you created, select the gear control,
and then select DNS from the drop-down list.
8. Select Add record, and then select the CNAME section.
9. In the Alias: box, type or copy and paste only the Alias value from the following table.
ﾉ Expand table

--- Page 422 of 2193 ---
Create Subdomain Alias
lyncdiscover webdir.online.lync.com
10. Create another subdomain (SIP): Select Add subdomain.
11. In the Add subdomain box for the new subdomain, type or copy and paste only the Add
subdomain value from the following table. (You'll add the Alias value in a later step.)
ﾉ Expand table
Add subdomain Alias
sip sipdir.online.lync.com
12. Under Actions for the subdomain that you created, select the gear control, and then select
DNS from the drop-down list.
13. Select Add record.
14. Select the CNAME section.
15. in the Alias: box, type or copy and paste only the Alias value from the following table.
ﾉ Expand table
Create Subdomain Alias
sip sipdir.online.lync.com
16. Select the check box for the I am aware disclaimer, and then select Save.
Add the two SRV records required for Microsoft

--- Page 423 of 2193 ---
1. To get started, go to your domains page at IONOS by using this link . Sign in.
2. Select Menu, and then select Domains and SSL.
3. Under Actions for the domain that you want to update, select the gear control, and then
select DNS.
4. Select Add record.

--- Page 424 of 2193 ---
5. Select the SRV section.
6. In the boxes for the new record, type or copy and paste the values from the following table.
ﾉ Expand table
Type Service Protocol Host Points to Priority Weight Port TTL
name
SRV _sip tls (Leave sipdir.online.lync.com 100 1 443 1
this hour
field
empty.)
SRV _sipfederationtls tcp (Leave sipfed.online.lync.com 100 1 5061 1
this hour
field
empty.)
7. Select Save.

--- Page 425 of 2193 ---
8. Add the other SRV record.
７ Note
When creating or updating DNS records, it typically takes about 15 minutes for DNS
changes to take effect. However, it can occasionally take longer for a DNS record change to
update across the Internet's DNS system. If you're having trouble with mail flow or other
issues after adding DNS records, see Find and fix issues after adding your domain or DNS
records.

--- Page 426 of 2193 ---
Advanced option: Intune and Mobile Device
Management for Microsoft 365
This service helps you secure and remotely manage mobile devices that connect to your domain.
Mobile Device Management needs two CNAME records so that users can enroll devices to the
service.
Add the two required CNAME records
） Important
Follow the subdomain procedure that you used for the other CNAME records, and supply
the values from the following table.
1. To get started, go to your domains page at IONOS by using this link . Follow the prompt
to sign in.
2. Select Menu, and then select Domains and SSL.
3. Under Actions for the domain that you want to update, select the gear control, and then
select DNS.

--- Page 427 of 2193 ---
Now you'll create two subdomains and set an Alias value for each.
(This is required because IONOS supports only one top-level CNAME record, but Microsoft
requires several CNAME records.)
First, you'll create the lyncdiscover subdomain.
4. Select Subdomains.
5. Select Add subdomain.

--- Page 428 of 2193 ---
6. In the Add subdomain box for the new subdomain, type or copy and paste only the Add
subdomain value from the following table. (You'll add the Alias value in a later step.)
ﾉ Expand table
Add subdomain Alias
enterpriseregistration enterpriseregistration.windows.net
7. Under Actions for the enterpriseregistration subdomain that you created, select the gear
control, and then select DNS from the drop-down list.
8. Select Add record, and then select the CNAME section.
9. In the Alias: box, type or copy and paste only the Alias value from the following table.
ﾉ Expand table
Add subdomain Alias
enterpriseregistration enterpriseregistration.windows.net
10. Create another subdomain: Select Add subdomain.
11. In the Add subdomain box for the new subdomain, type or copy and paste only the Add
subdomain value from the following table. (You'll add the Alias value in a later step.)
ﾉ Expand table
Add subdomain Alias
enterpriseenrollment enterpriseenrollment-s.manage.microsoft.com

--- Page 429 of 2193 ---
12. Under Actions for the enterpriseenrollment subdomain that you created, select the gear
control, and then select DNS from the drop-down list.
13. Select Add record.
14. Select the CNAME section.
15. in the Alias: box, type or copy and paste only the Alias value from the following table.
ﾉ Expand table
Create Subdomain Alias
enterpriseenrollment enterpriseenrollment-s.manage.microsoft.com
16. Select the check box for the I am aware disclaimer, and then select Save.
Last updated on 05/08/2026

--- Page 430 of 2193 ---
Connect your DNS records at 123-reg.co.uk
to Microsoft 365
Check the Domains FAQ if you don't find what you're looking for.
If 123-reg.co.uk is your DNS hosting provider, follow the steps in this article to verify your domain
and set up DNS records for email, Skype for Business Online, and so on.
After you add these records at 123-reg.co.uk, your domain will be set up to work with Microsoft
services.
７ Note
When creating or updating DNS records, it typically takes about 15 minutes for DNS
changes to take effect. However, it can occasionally take longer for a DNS record change to
update across the Internet's DNS system. If you're having trouble with mail flow or other
issues after adding DNS records, see Find and fix issues after adding your domain or DNS
records.
 Tip
Some configuration tasks might be complex to perform. For technical support, follow these
steps:
1. Sign in to the Microsoft 365 admin center .
2. At the bottom right, select Help & Support.
3. In the Support Assistant pane that opens, enter your question.
4. Review the results. If you still have questions, select Contact support.
To learn about your options for contacting support, see Get support for Microsoft 365 for
business.
Add a TXT record for verification
Before you use your domain with Microsoft, we have to make sure that you own it. Your ability to
log in to your account at your domain registrar and create the DNS record proves to Microsoft

--- Page 431 of 2193 ---
that you own the domain.
７ Note
This record is used only to verify that you own your domain; it doesn't affect anything else.
You can delete it later, if you like.
1. To get started, go to your domains page at 123-reg.co.uk and follow the prompt to log in.
2. Select Domains, and on the Domain name overview page, select the name of the domain
that you want to verify or go to Control panel.
3. On the Manage domain page, under Advanced domain settings, choose Manage DNS.

--- Page 432 of 2193 ---
4. On the Manage your DNS page, select the Advanced DNS tab.
5. In the Type box for the new record choose TXT/SPF from the drop-down list, and then type
or copy and paste the other values from the following table.
ﾉ Expand table

--- Page 433 of 2193 ---
Hostname Type Destination TXT/SPF
@ TXT/SPF MS=msXXXXXXXX
Note: This is an example. Use your specific Destination or Points to Address
value here, from the table. How do I find this?
6. Select Add.
Wait a few minutes before you continue, so that the record you just created can update
across the Internet.
Now that you've added the record at your domain registrar's site, you'll go back to Microsoft and
request a search for the record. When Microsoft finds the correct TXT record, your domain is
verified.
To verify the record in Microsoft 365:

--- Page 434 of 2193 ---
1. In the admin center, go to the Settings > Domains .
2. On the Domains page, select the domain that you're verifying, and select Start setup.
3. Select Continue.
4. On the Verify domain page, select Verify.
７ Note
When creating or updating DNS records, it typically takes about 15 minutes for DNS
changes to take effect. However, it can occasionally take longer for a DNS record change to
update across the Internet's DNS system. If you're having trouble with mail flow or other
issues after adding DNS records, see Find and fix issues after adding your domain or DNS
records.
Add an MX record so email for your domain will come
to Microsoft
1. To get started, go to your domains page at 123-reg.co.uk. You'll be prompted to log in first.
2. On the Domain name overview page, select the name of the domain that you want to edit.

--- Page 435 of 2193 ---
3. On the Manage domain page, under Advanced domain settings, choose Manage DNS.
4. On the Manage your DNS page, select the Advanced DNS tab.

--- Page 436 of 2193 ---
5. In the Type box for the new record choose MX from the drop-down list, and then type or
copy and paste the other values from the following table.
ﾉ Expand table
Hostname Type Priority Destination MX
@ MX 1 <domain-key>.mail.protection.outlook.com.
For more information about This value MUST end with a period (.)
priority, see What is MX Note: Get your <domain-key> from your
priority? Microsoft account. How do I find this?
6. Select Add.

--- Page 437 of 2193 ---
7. If there are any other MX records, remove each one by selecting the Delete (trash can) icon
for that record.
Add the CNAME record required for Microsoft
1. To get started, go to your domains page at 123-reg.co.uk. You'll be prompted to log in first.
2. On the Domain name overview page, select the name of the domain that you want to edit.

--- Page 438 of 2193 ---
3. On the Manage domain page, under Advanced domain settings, choose Manage DNS.
4. On the Manage your DNS page, select the Advanced DNS tab.

--- Page 439 of 2193 ---
5. Add the CNAME record.
In the Type box for the new record choose CNAME from the drop-down list, and then type
or copy and paste the other values from the following table.
ﾉ Expand table
Hostname Type Destination CNAME
autodiscover CNAME autodiscover.outlook.com.
This value MUST end with a period (.)
6. Select Add.

--- Page 440 of 2193 ---
Add a TXT record for SPF to help prevent email spam
） Important
You cannot have more than one TXT record for SPF for a domain. If your domain has more
than one SPF record, you'll get email errors, as well as delivery and spam classification issues.
If you already have an SPF record for your domain, don't create a new one for Microsoft.
Instead, add the required Microsoft values to the current record so that you have a single
SPF record that includes both sets of values. Need examples? Check out these External
Domain Name System records for Microsoft. To validate your SPF record, you can use one
of these SPF validation tools.
1. To get started, go to your domains page at 123-reg.co.uk. You'll be prompted to log in first.
2. On the Domain name overview page, select the name of the domain that you want to edit.

--- Page 441 of 2193 ---
3. On the Manage domain page, under Advanced domain settings, choose Manage DNS.
4. On the Manage your DNS page, select the Advanced DNS tab.

--- Page 442 of 2193 ---
5. In the Type box for the new record choose TXT/SPF from the drop-down list, and then type
or copy and paste the other values from the following table.
ﾉ Expand table
Hostname Type Destination TXT/SPF
@ TXT/SPF v=spf1 include:spf.protection.outlook.com -all
Note: We recommend copying and pasting this entry, so that all of the
spacing stays correct.
6. Select Add.
Advanced option: Skype for Business
Only select this option if your organization uses Skype for Business for online communication
services like chat, conference calls, and video calls, in addition to Microsoft Teams. Skype needs 4

--- Page 443 of 2193 ---
records: 2 SRV records for user-to-user communication, and 2 CNAME records to sign-in and
connect users to the service.
Add the two required SRV records
1. To get started, go to your domains page at 123-reg.co.uk. You'll be prompted to log in first.
2. On the Domain name overview page, select the name of the domain that you want to edit.
3. On the Manage domain page, under Advanced domain settings, choose Manage DNS.

--- Page 444 of 2193 ---
4. On the Manage your DNS page, select the Advanced DNS tab.
5. Add the first of the two SRV records:
In the Type box for the new record choose SRV from the drop-down list, and then type or
copy and paste the other values from the following table.

--- Page 445 of 2193 ---
ﾉ Expand table
Hostname Type Priority TTL Destination SRV
_sip._tls SRV 100 3600 1 443 sipdir.online.lync.com. This value MUST end
with a period (.)
Note: We recommend copying and pasting this
entry, so that all of the spacing stays correct.
_sipfederationtls._tcp SRV 100 3600 1 5061 sipfed.online.lync.com. This value MUST end
with a period (.)
Note: We recommend copying and pasting this
entry, so that all of the spacing stays correct.
6. Select Add.
7. Add the other SRV record.

--- Page 446 of 2193 ---
７ Note
When creating or updating DNS records, it typically takes about 15 minutes for DNS
changes to take effect. However, it can occasionally take longer for a DNS record change to
update across the Internet's DNS system. If you're having trouble with mail flow or other
issues after adding DNS records, see Find and fix issues after adding your domain or DNS
records.
Add the two required CNAME records for Skype for Business
1. To get started, go to your domains page at 123-reg.co.uk. You'll be prompted to log in first.
2. On the Domain name overview page, select the name of the domain that you want to edit.
3. On the Manage domain page, under Advanced domain settings, choose Manage DNS.

--- Page 447 of 2193 ---
4. On the Manage your DNS page, select the Advanced DNS tab.
5. Add the first CNAME record.
In the Type box for the new record choose CNAME from the drop-down list, and then type
or copy and paste the other values from the following table.

--- Page 448 of 2193 ---
ﾉ Expand table
Hostname Type Destination CNAME
sip CNAME sipdir.online.lync.com.
This value MUST end with a period (.)
lyncdiscover CNAME webdir.online.lync.com.
This value MUST end with a period (.)
6. Select Add.
7. Add the other CNAME record.
７ Note

--- Page 449 of 2193 ---
When creating or updating DNS records, it typically takes about 15 minutes for DNS
changes to take effect. However, it can occasionally take longer for a DNS record change to
update across the Internet's DNS system. If you're having trouble with mail flow or other
issues after adding DNS records, see Find and fix issues after adding your domain or DNS
records.
Advanced option: Intune and Mobile Device
Management for Microsoft 365
This service helps you secure and remotely manage mobile devices that connect to your domain.
Mobile Device Management needs two CNAME records so that users can enroll devices to the
service.
Add the two required CNAME records for Mobile
Device Management
1. To get started, go to your domains page at 123-reg.co.uk. You'll be prompted to log in first.
2. On the Domain name overview page, select the name of the domain that you want to edit.
3. On the Manage domain page, under Advanced domain settings, choose Manage DNS.

--- Page 450 of 2193 ---
4. On the Manage your DNS page, select the Advanced DNS tab.
5. Add the first CNAME record.
In the Type box for the new record choose CNAME from the drop-down list, and then type
or copy and paste the other values from the following table.

--- Page 451 of 2193 ---
ﾉ Expand table
Hostname Type Destination CNAME
enterpriseregistration CNAME enterpriseregistration.windows.net.
This value MUST end with a period (.)
enterpriseenrollment CNAME enterpriseenrollment.manage.microsoft.com.
This value MUST end with a period (.)
6. Select Add.
7. Add the other CNAME record.
７ Note

--- Page 452 of 2193 ---
When creating or updating DNS records, it typically takes about 15 minutes for DNS
changes to take effect. However, it can occasionally take longer for a DNS record change to
update across the Internet's DNS system. If you're having trouble with mail flow or other
issues after adding DNS records, see Find and fix issues after adding your domain or DNS
records.
Last updated on 05/08/2026

--- Page 453 of 2193 ---
Connect DNS records at AWS to
Microsoft 365
If AWS hosts your domain's DNS, follow the steps in this article to verify domain ownership and
manually add the DNS records required for Microsoft 365 services such as email, Microsoft
Teams, and device management. After you add these records at AWS, your domain is ready to
work with Microsoft 365.
This article covers the creation of the following DNS records at AWS:
ﾉ Expand table
Service DNS record types
Domain verification TXT
Email MX, CNAME (Autodiscover), TXT (SPF)
Microsoft Teams SRV (2), CNAME (2)
Microsoft Intune/MDM CNAME (2)
７ Note
AWS is a non-Microsoft site. Microsoft doesn't control the AWS site. Additionally, AWS might
change their website and tools so that the steps in this article are no longer valid. For
support with AWS's site and tools, contact AWS support.
Before you begin
You must own a domain registered with AWS.
You must add the domain in the Microsoft 365 admin center . If the domain isn't added in
the Microsoft 365 admin center, follow the steps in Add a domain to add your domain
before you start adding DNS records at AWS.
Sign in to AWS to manage your domain's DNS records

--- Page 454 of 2193 ---
To add DNS records at AWS, sign in to your AWS account and then go to the page where you can
manage your domain's DNS records. Follow these steps to get there:
1. To get started, go to your domains page at AWS and sign in.
2. On the landing page, under Domains, select Registered domains.
3. Under Domain Name, select the domain you want to set up in Microsoft 365.
） Important
If a hosted zone for your domain doesn't exist, select Create hosted zone and
complete the steps before moving to the next step.

4. Select Manage DNS.

5. Under Domain name, select the domain name for the hosted zone version of the domain
you want to set up in Microsoft 365.


--- Page 455 of 2193 ---
Add Microsoft 365 DNS records at AWS
To add the required DNS records at AWS for Microsoft 365 services, select the tab based on
which DNS records you need to add:
Domain Verification.
Email.
Microsoft Teams.
Microsoft Intune/Mobile Device Management for Microsoft 365.
Domain Verify
Add a TXT record for domain ownership verification
Before you can use your domain with Microsoft 365, you need to prove you own the domain.
Your ability to sign in to your account at your domain registrar and create the DNS record
proves to Microsoft that you own the domain. This process involves creating a TXT record at
your domain registrar with a specific value that Microsoft can look for. When Microsoft finds
the record with the correct value, your domain is verified. The TXT record is used only to
verify that you own your domain. It doesn't affect anything else and can be deleted once
domain verification is complete.
７ Note
The procedures in this section assume that you started the process of adding a domain,
but you didn't verify domain ownership yet.
To add the TXT record for domain verification at AWS, follow these steps:
1. Get the TXT value specific for your domain from the Microsoft 365 admin center . For
help on finding the value of your TXT record in the Microsoft 365 admin center, see
Gather the information you need to create DNS records.
2. If you're not already signed in to the AWS Hosted Zones page and selected the domain
you want to add the TXT record for, follow the steps in Sign in to AWS to manage your
domain's DNS records to get there.
3. Select Create record.

--- Page 456 of 2193 ---

4. In the boxes for the new record, enter the values from the following table:
ﾉ Expand table
Record name Record type Value TTL (seconds) Routing policy
{Leave empty} TXT MS=msXXXXXXXX 1800 Simple routing
In the Value field, replace MS=msXXXXXXXX with the TXT value you gathered
earlier from the Microsoft 365 admin center. The value shown in the table is only
an example.
Select the Record type and Routing policy values from the drop-down menus.
5. Select Create records.

Once you add the record at your domain registrar's site, go back to Microsoft and request a
search for the record. When Microsoft finds the correct TXT record, your domain is verified.
To verify the record in Microsoft 365:

--- Page 457 of 2193 ---
1. Sign in to the Microsoft 365 admin center .
2. From the left navigation bar, select … Show all, and then select Settings to expand it.
3. Under Settings, select Domains .
4. In the Domains page, select the domain that you're verifying, and select Start setup.

5. Select Continue.
6. On the Verify domain page, select Verify.
Support
If you don't find what you're looking for, check the Domains FAQ.
 Tip
Some configuration tasks might be complex to perform. For technical support, follow these
steps:
1. Sign in to the Microsoft 365 admin center .
2. At the bottom right, select Help & Support.
3. In the Support Assistant pane that opens, enter your question.
4. Review the results. If you still have questions, select Contact support.
To learn about your options for contacting support, see Get support for Microsoft 365 for
business.
Last updated on 05/08/2026

--- Page 458 of 2193 ---
Connect your DNS records at Cloudflare to
Microsoft 365
Check the Domains FAQ if you don't find what you're looking for.
If Cloudflare is your DNS hosting provider, follow the steps in this article to verify your domain
and set up DNS records for email, Skype for Business Online, and so on.
 Tip
Some configuration tasks might be complex to perform. For technical support, follow these
steps:
1. Sign in to the Microsoft 365 admin center .
2. At the bottom right, select Help & Support.
3. In the Support Assistant pane that opens, enter your question.
4. Review the results. If you still have questions, select Contact support.
To learn about your options for contacting support, see Get support for Microsoft 365 for
business.
Before you begin
You have two options for setting up DNS records for your domain:
Use Domain Connect If you haven't set up your domain with another email service provider,
use the Domain Connect steps to automatically verify and set up your new domain to use
with Microsoft 365.
OR
Use the manual steps Verify your domain using the manual steps below and choose when
and which records to add to your domain registrar. This allows you to set up new MX (mail)
records, for example, at your convenience.
Use Domain Connect to verify and set up
your domain
Follow these steps to automatically verify and set up your Cloudflare domain with Microsoft 365:

--- Page 459 of 2193 ---
1. In the Microsoft 365 admin center, select Settings > Domains , and select the domain you
want to set up.
2. Select the three dots (more actions) > choose Manage DNS.
3. On the How do you want to connect your domain? page, select Continue.
4. On the Add DNS record page, select Add DNS records.
5. On the Cloudflare login page, sign in to your account, and select Authorize.
This completes your domain setup for Microsoft 365.
Create DNS records with manual setup
After you add these records at Cloudflare, your domain will be set up to work with Microsoft 365
services.
７ Note
When creating or updating DNS records, it typically takes about 15 minutes for DNS
changes to take effect. However, it can occasionally take longer for a DNS record change to
update across the Internet's DNS system. If you're having trouble with mail flow or other
issues after adding DNS records, see Find and fix issues after adding your domain or DNS
records.
Change your domain's nameserver (NS) records
） Important
You must perform this procedure at the domain registrar where you purchased and
registered your domain.
When you signed up for Cloudflare, you added a domain by using the Cloudflare Setup process.
The domain that you added was purchased from Cloudflare or a separate domain registrar. To
verify and create DNS records for your domain in Microsoft 365, you first need to change the
nameservers at your domain registrar so that they use the Cloudflare nameservers.
To change your domain's name servers at your domain registrar's website yourself, follow these
steps.
1. Find the area on the domain registrar's website where you can edit the nameservers for
your domain.

--- Page 460 of 2193 ---
2. Either create two nameserver records by using the values in the following table, or edit the
existing nameserver records so that they match these values.
ﾉ Expand table
Type Value
First nameserver Use the nameserver value provided by Cloudflare.
Second nameserver Use the nameserver value provided by Cloudflare.
 Tip
You should use at least two name server records. If there are any other name servers
listed, you should delete them.
3. Save your changes.
７ Note
Your nameserver record updates may take up to several hours to update across the
Internet's DNS system. Then your Microsoft email and other services will be all set to work
with your domain.
Add a TXT record for verification
Before you use your domain with Microsoft, we have to make sure that you own it. Your ability to
log in to your account at your domain registrar and create the DNS record proves to Microsoft
that you own the domain.
７ Note
This record is used only to verify that you own your domain; it doesn't affect anything else.
You can delete it later, if you like.
1. Make sure you have added a domain in the Microsoft 365 Admin Center using the steps in
Add a domain, and that the domain has not already been verified. You'll need to copy the
TXT value from the Add a record to verify ownership page for use later in this procedure.
2. To get started, go to your domains page at Cloudflare by using this link . You'll be
prompted to log in first.

--- Page 461 of 2193 ---
3. On the Account Home page, find the domain that you want to update, select the three dots
(...) at the right and select Configure DNS from the drop-down menu.
4. On the DNS management page, select +Add record.
5. Select the TXT type from the drop-down list, and type or copy and paste the values from
this table. You'll use the TXT value (MS=msXXXXXXXX) that you copied earlier.
ﾉ Expand table
Type Name TTL Content
TXT @ 30 MS=msXXXXXXXX
minutes Note: This is an example. Use your specific Destination or Points to
Address value here, from the table. How do I find this?
6. Select Save.

--- Page 462 of 2193 ---
Wait a few minutes before you continue, so that the record you just created can update
across the Internet.
Now that you've added the record at your domain registrar's site, you'll go back to Microsoft and
search for the record. When Microsoft finds the correct TXT record, your domain is verified.
To verify the record in Microsoft 365:
1. In the admin center, go to the Settings > Domains .
2. On the Domains page, select the domain that you're verifying, and select Manage DNS.
3. Select Continue.
4. On the Verify domain page, select Verify.
７ Note
When creating or updating DNS records, it typically takes about 15 minutes for DNS
changes to take effect. However, it can occasionally take longer for a DNS record change to
update across the Internet's DNS system. If you're having trouble with mail flow or other
issues after adding DNS records, see Find and fix issues after adding your domain or DNS
records.
Add an MX record so email for your domain will come
to Microsoft

--- Page 463 of 2193 ---
1. To get started, go to your domains page at Cloudflare by using this link . You'll be
prompted to log in first.
2. On the Account Home page, find the domain that you want to update, select the three dots
(...) at the right and select Configure DNS from the drop-down menu.
3. On the DNS management page, select +Add record.
4. Select the MX type from the drop-down list, and type or copy and paste the values from
this table.
ﾉ Expand table
Type Name Mail server TTL Priority
MX @ <domain-key>.mail.protection.outlook.com 30 1
Note: Get your <domain-key> from your minutes For more information
Microsoft 365 account. How do I find this? about priority, see What
is MX priority?
5. Select Save.
6. If there are any other MX records listed in the MX Records section, delete them by selecting
Edit, and then select Delete.

--- Page 464 of 2193 ---
7. In the confirmation dialog box, select Delete to confirm your changes.
Add the CNAME record required for Microsoft
1. To get started, go to your domains page at Cloudflare by using this link . You'll be
prompted to log in first.
2. On the Account Home page, find the domain that you want to update, select the three dots
(...) at the right and select Configure DNS from the drop-down menu.
3. On the DNS management page, select +Add record
4. Select the CNAME type from the drop-down list, and type or copy and paste the values
from this table.
ﾉ Expand table
Type Name Target TTL
CNAME autodiscover autodiscover.outlook.com Auto
5. Select Save.

--- Page 465 of 2193 ---
Add a TXT record for SPF to help prevent email spam
） Important
You cannot have more than one TXT record for SPF for a domain. If your domain has more
than one SPF record, you'll get email errors, as well as delivery and spam classification issues.
If you already have an SPF record for your domain, don't create a new one for Microsoft 365.
Instead, add the required Microsoft 365 values to the current record so that you have a
single SPF record that includes both sets of values.
1. To get started, go to your domains page at Cloudflare by using this link . You'll be
prompted to log in first.
2. On the Account Home page, find the domain that you want to update, select the three dots
(...) at the right and select Configure DNS from the drop-down menu.
3. On the DNS management page, select +Add record.
4. Select the TXT type from the drop-down list, and type or copy and paste the values from
this table.
ﾉ Expand table

--- Page 466 of 2193 ---
Type Name TTL Content
TXT @ 30 v=spf1 include:spf.protection.outlook.com -all
minutes Note: We recommend copying and pasting this entry, so that all of the
spacing stays correct.
5. Select Save.
Advanced option: Skype for Business
Only select this option if your organization uses Skype for Business for online communication
services like chat, conference calls, and video calls, in addition to Microsoft Teams. Skype needs 4
records: 2 SRV records for user-to-user communication, and 2 CNAME records to sign-in and
connect users to the service.
Add the two required SRV records
） Important
Keep in mind that Cloudflare is responsible for making this functionality available. In case
you see discrepancies between the steps below and the current Cloudflare GUI (Graphical
User Interface), leverage the Cloudflare Community .
1. To get started, go to your domains page at Cloudflare by using this link . You'll be
prompted to log in first.
2. On the Account Home page, find the domain that you want to update, select the three dots
(...) at the right and select Configure DNS from the drop-down menu.
3. On the DNS management page, select +Add record

--- Page 467 of 2193 ---
4. Select the SRV type from the drop-down list, and type or copy and paste the values from
this table.
ﾉ Expand table
Type Name Service Protocol TTL Priority Weight Port Target
SRV Use your _sip TLS 30 100 1 443 sipfed.online.lync.
domain_name; minutes
for example,
contoso.com
SRV Use your _sipfederationtls TCP 30 100 1 5061 sipfed.online.lync.
domain_name; minutes
for example,
contoso.com
5. Select Save.
6. Add the other SRV record by copying the values from the second row of the table.
７ Note
When creating or updating DNS records, it typically takes about 15 minutes for DNS
changes to take effect. However, it can occasionally take longer for a DNS record change to
update across the Internet's DNS system. If you're having trouble with mail flow or other

--- Page 468 of 2193 ---
issues after adding DNS records, see Find and fix issues after adding your domain or DNS
records.
Add the two required CNAME records for Skype for Business
1. To get started, go to your domains page at Cloudflare by using this link . You'll be
prompted to log in first.
2. On the Account Home page, find the domain that you want to update, select the three dots
(...) at the right and select Configure DNS from the drop-down menu.
3. On the DNS management page, select +Add record
4. Select the CNAME type from the drop-down list, and type or copy and paste the values
from this table.
ﾉ Expand table
Type Name Target TTL
CNAME sip sipdir.online.lync.com 1 Hour
CNAME lyncdiscover webdir.online.lync.com 1 Hour
5. Select Save.
6. Add the other CNAME record by copying the values from the second row of the table.
７ Note

--- Page 469 of 2193 ---
When creating or updating DNS records, it typically takes about 15 minutes for DNS
changes to take effect. However, it can occasionally take longer for a DNS record change to
update across the Internet's DNS system. If you're having trouble with mail flow or other
issues after adding DNS records, see Find and fix issues after adding your domain or DNS
records.
Advanced option: Intune and Mobile Device
Management for Microsoft 365
This service helps you secure and remotely manage mobile devices that connect to your domain.
Mobile Device Management needs 2 CNAME records so that users can enroll devices to the
service.
Add the two required CNAME records for Mobile
Device Management
1. To get started, go to your domains page at Cloudflare by using this link . You'll be
prompted to log in first.
2. On the Account Home page, find the domain that you want to update, select the three dots
(...) at the right and select Configure DNS from the drop-down menu.
3. On the DNS management page, select +Add record
4. Select the CNAME type from the drop-down list, and type or copy and paste the values
from this table.
ﾉ Expand table

--- Page 470 of 2193 ---
Type Name Target TTL
CNAME enterpriseregistration enterpriseregistration.windows.net 1 Hour
CNAME enterpriseenrollment enterpriseenrollment-s.manage.microsoft.com 1 Hour
5. Select Save.
6. Add the other CNAME record by copying the values from the second row of the table.
７ Note
When creating or updating DNS records, it typically takes about 15 minutes for DNS
changes to take effect. However, it can occasionally take longer for a DNS record change to
update across the Internet's DNS system. If you're having trouble with mail flow or other
issues after adding DNS records, see Find and fix issues after adding your domain or DNS
records.
Last updated on 05/08/2026

--- Page 471 of 2193 ---
Connect your DNS records at GoDaddy to
Microsoft 365
Check the Domains FAQ if you don't find what you're looking for.
If GoDaddy is your DNS hosting provider, follow the steps in this article to verify your domain
and set up DNS records for email, Teams, and so on.
 Tip
Some configuration tasks might be complex to perform. For technical support, follow these
steps:
1. Sign in to the Microsoft 365 admin center .
2. At the bottom right, select Help & Support.
3. In the Support Assistant pane that opens, enter your question.
4. Review the results. If you still have questions, select Contact support.
To learn about your options for contacting support, see Get support for Microsoft 365 for
business.
Before you begin
You have two options for setting up DNS records for your domain:
Use Domain Connect If you haven't set up your domain with another email service provider,
use the Domain Connect steps to automatically verify and set up your new domain to use
with Microsoft 365.
OR
Use the manual steps Verify your domain using the manual steps below and choose when
and which records to add to your domain registrar. This allows you to set up new MX (mail)
records, for example, at your convenience.
Use Domain Connect to verify and set up your domain
Follow these steps to automatically verify and set up your GoDaddy domain with Microsoft 365:

--- Page 472 of 2193 ---
1. In the Microsoft 365 admin center, select Settings > Domains , and select the domain you
want to set up.
2. Select the three dots (more actions) > choose Start setup.
3. On the How do you want to connect your domain? page, select Continue.
4. On the Add DNS records page, select Add DNS records.
5. On the GoDaddy login page, sign in to your account, and select Authorize.
This completes your domain setup for Microsoft 365.
Create DNS records with manual setup
After you add these records at GoDaddy, your domain will be set up to work with Microsoft
services.
７ Note
When creating or updating DNS records, it typically takes about 15 minutes for DNS
changes to take effect. However, it can occasionally take longer for a DNS record change to
update across the Internet's DNS system. If you're having trouble with mail flow or other
issues after adding DNS records, see Find and fix issues after adding your domain or DNS
records.
Add a TXT record for verification
Before you use your domain with Microsoft, we have to make sure that you own it. Your ability to
log in to your account at your domain registrar and create the DNS record proves to Microsoft
that you own the domain.

--- Page 473 of 2193 ---
７ Note
This record is used only to verify that you own your domain; it doesn't affect anything else.
You can delete it later, if you like.
1. To get started, go to your domains page at GoDaddy by using this link .
If you're prompted to log in, use your login credentials, select your login name in the upper
right, and then select My Products.
2. Under Domains, in the Portfolio tab, select the ellipse (...) next to the domain you want to
verify, and select Edit DNS from the drop-down menu.
3. Under DNS Records, select Add New Record on the top right corner.
4. Select TXT option from the filter box.
5. In the boxes for the new record, type or copy and paste the values from the table.
ﾉ Expand table

--- Page 474 of 2193 ---
Type Name Value TTL
TXT @ MS=ms XXXXXXXX 1
Note: This is an example. Use your specific Destination or Points to Address hour
value here, from the table. How do I find this?
6. Select Save.
Wait a few minutes before you continue, so that the record you just created can update
across the Internet.
Now that you've added the record at your domain registrar's site, you'll go back to Microsoft and
request the record. When Microsoft finds the correct TXT record, your domain is verified.
To verify the record in Microsoft 365:
1. In the admin center, go to the Settings > Domains .
2. On the Domains page, select the domain that you're verifying, and select Start setup.
3. Select Continue.
4. On the Verify domain page, select Verify.
７ Note
When creating or updating DNS records, it typically takes about 15 minutes for DNS
changes to take effect. However, it can occasionally take longer for a DNS record change to
update across the Internet's DNS system. If you're having trouble with mail flow or other

--- Page 475 of 2193 ---
issues after adding DNS records, see Find and fix issues after adding your domain or DNS
records.
Add an MX record so email for your domain will come
to Microsoft
1. To get started, go to your domains page at GoDaddy by using this link .
If you're prompted to log in, use your login credentials, select your login name in the upper
right, and then select My Products.
2. Under Domains, in the Portfolio tab, select the ellipse (...) next to the domain you want to
verify, and select Edit DNS from the drop-down menu.
3. Under Records, select Add New Record.
4. Choose MX option from the filter box.
5. In the boxes for the new record, type or copy and paste the values from the following table.
(Choose the Type and TTL values from the drop-down list.)

--- Page 476 of 2193 ---
ﾉ Expand table
Type Name Priority Value TTL
MX @ 10 <domain-key>.mail.protection.outlook.com 1
For more information Note: Get your <domain-key> from your hour
about priority, see What is Microsoft account. How do I find this?
MX priority?
6. Select Save.
Add the CNAME record required for Microsoft
1. To get started, go to your domains page at GoDaddy by using this link .
If you're prompted to log in, use your login credentials, select your login name in the upper
right, and then select My Products.
2. Under Domains, in the Portfolio tab, select the ellipse (...) next to the domain you want to
verify, and select Edit DNS from the drop-down menu.
3. Under Records, select Add New Record.

--- Page 477 of 2193 ---
4. Choose CNAME from the drop-down list.
5. Create the CNAME record.
In the boxes for the new record, type or copy and paste the values from the first row of the
following table.
(Choose the TTL value from the drop-down list.)
ﾉ Expand table
Type Name Value TTL
CNAME autodiscover autodiscover.outlook.com 1 hour
6. Select Save.
Add a TXT record for SPF to help prevent email spam
） Important
You cannot have more than one TXT record for SPF for a domain. If your domain has more
than one SPF record, you'll get email errors, as well as delivery and spam classification issues.
If you already have an SPF record for your domain, don't create a new one for Microsoft.
Instead, add the required Microsoft values to the current record so that you have a single
SPF record that includes both sets of values.
1. To get started, go to your domains page at GoDaddy by using this link .
If you're prompted to log in, use your login credentials, select your login name in the upper
right, and then select My Products.

--- Page 478 of 2193 ---
2. Under Domains, in the Portfolio tab, select the ellipse (...) next to the domain you want to
verify, and select Edit DNS from the drop-down menu.
3. Under Records, select Add New Record.
4. Choose TXT from the drop-down list.
5. In the boxes for the new record, type or copy and paste the following values.
(Choose the TTL value from the drop-down lists.)
ﾉ Expand table
Type Name Value TTL
TXT @ v=spf1 include:secureserver.net -all 1
Note: We recommend copying and pasting this entry, so that all of the hour
spacing stays correct.

--- Page 479 of 2193 ---
6. Select Save.
Advanced option: Microsoft Teams
Only select this option if your organization uses Microsoft Teams. Teams needs 4 records: 2 SRV
records for user-to-user communication, and 2 CNAME records to sign-in and connect users to
the service.
Add the two required SRV records
1. To get started, go to your domains page at GoDaddy by using this link .
If you're prompted to log in, use your login credentials, select your login name in the upper
right, and then select My Products.
2. Under Domains, in the Portfolio tab, select the ellipse (...) next to the domain you want to
verify, and select Edit DNS from the drop-down menu.
3. Under Records, select Add New Record.
4. Choose SRV from the drop-down list.

--- Page 480 of 2193 ---
5. Create the first SRV record.
In the boxes for the new record, type or copy and paste the values from the first row of the
following table.
(Choose the Type and TTL values from the drop-down lists.)
ﾉ Expand table
Type Service Protocol Name Value Priority Weight Port TTL
SRV _sip _tls @ sipdir.online.lync.com 100 1 443 1
Hour
SRV _sipfederationtls _tcp @ sipfed.online.lync.com 100 1 5061 1
Hour
6. Select Save.
7. Add the other SRV record by performing steps 3-5 again.
７ Note
When creating or updating DNS records, it typically takes about 15 minutes for DNS
changes to take effect. However, it can occasionally take longer for a DNS record change to
update across the Internet's DNS system. If you're having trouble with mail flow or other
issues after adding DNS records, see Find and fix issues after adding your domain or DNS
records.
Add the two required CNAME records for Microsoft Teams
1. To get started, go to your domains page at GoDaddy by using this link .
If you're prompted to log in, use your login credentials, select your login name in the upper
right, and then select My Products.

--- Page 481 of 2193 ---
2. Under Domains, in the Portfolio tab, select the ellipse (...) next to the domain you want to
verify, and select Edit DNS from the drop-down menu.
3. Under Records, select Add New Record.
4. Choose CNAME from the drop-down list.
5. In the empty boxes for the new records, type or copy and paste the values from the first row
in the following table.
ﾉ Expand table
Type Name Value TTL
CNAME sip sipdir.online.lync.com. 1 Hour
This value MUST end with a period (.)
CNAME lyncdiscover webdir.online.lync.com. 1 Hour
This value MUST end with a period (.)

--- Page 482 of 2193 ---
6. Select Save.
7. Add the other CNAME record by performing steps 3-5 again.
７ Note
When creating or updating DNS records, it typically takes about 15 minutes for DNS
changes to take effect. However, it can occasionally take longer for a DNS record change to
update across the Internet's DNS system. If you're having trouble with mail flow or other
issues after adding DNS records, see Find and fix issues after adding your domain or DNS
records.
Advanced option: Intune and Mobile Device
Management for Microsoft 365
This service helps you secure and remotely manage mobile devices that connect to your domain.
Mobile Device Management needs 2 CNAME records so that users can enroll devices to the
service.
Add the two required CNAME records Mobile
Device Management
1. To get started, go to your domains page at GoDaddy by using this link .
If you're prompted to log in, use your login credentials, select your login name in the upper
right, and then select My Products.
2. Under Domains, in the Portfolio tab, select the ellipse (...) next to the domain you want to
verify, and select Edit DNS from the drop-down menu.

--- Page 483 of 2193 ---
3. Under Records, select Add New Record.
4. Choose CNAME from the drop-down list.
5. In the empty boxes for the new records, type or copy and paste the values from the first row
in the following table.
ﾉ Expand table
Type Name Value TTL
CNAME enterpriseregistration enterpriseregistration.windows.net. 1 Hour
This value MUST end with a period (.)
CNAME enterpriseenrollment enterpriseenrollment-s.manage.microsoft.com. 1 Hour
This value MUST end with a period (.)
6. Select Save.

--- Page 484 of 2193 ---
7. Add the other CNAME record by performing steps 3-5 again.
７ Note
When creating or updating DNS records, it typically takes about 15 minutes for DNS
changes to take effect. However, it can occasionally take longer for a DNS record change to
update across the Internet's DNS system. If you're having trouble with mail flow or other
issues after adding DNS records, see Find and fix issues after adding your domain or DNS
records.
Last updated on 05/08/2026

--- Page 485 of 2193 ---
Connect DNS records at Namecheap to
Microsoft 365
If Namecheap hosts your domain's DNS, follow the steps in this article to verify domain
ownership and manually add the DNS records required for Microsoft 365 services such as email,
Microsoft Teams, and device management. After you add these records at Namecheap, your
domain is ready to work with Microsoft 365.
This article covers the creation of the following DNS records at Namecheap:
ﾉ Expand table
Service DNS record types
Domain verification TXT
Email MX, CNAME (Autodiscover), TXT (SPF)
Microsoft Teams SRV (2), CNAME (2)
Microsoft Intune/MDM CNAME (2)
７ Note
Namecheap is a non-Microsoft site. Microsoft doesn't control the Namecheap site.
Additionally, Namecheap might change their website and tools so that the steps in this
article are no longer valid. For support with Namecheap's site and tools, contact Namecheap
support.
Before you begin
You must own a domain registered with Namecheap.
You must add the domain in the Microsoft 365 admin center . If the domain isn't added in
the Microsoft 365 admin center, follow the steps in Add a domain to add your domain
before you start adding DNS records at Namecheap.
７ Note

--- Page 486 of 2193 ---
When creating or updating DNS records, it typically takes about 15 minutes for DNS
changes to take effect. However, it can occasionally take longer for a DNS record change to
update across the Internet's DNS system. If you're having trouble with mail flow or other
issues after adding DNS records, see Find and fix issues after adding your domain or DNS
records.
Sign in to Namecheap to manage your domain's
DNS records
To add DNS records at Namecheap, sign in to your Namecheap account and then go to the page
where you can manage your domain's DNS records. Follow these steps to get there:
1. Sign in to your Namecheap domains page by going to the Namecheap Log in to your
account page.

2. On the landing page, under Account, choose Domain List from the drop-down list.

--- Page 487 of 2193 ---

3. On the Domain List page, select the domain that you want to edit, and then select Manage.

4. Select Advanced DNS.

--- Page 488 of 2193 ---

Add Microsoft 365 DNS records at Namecheap
To add required DNS records at Namecheap for Microsoft 365 services, select the tab based on
which DNS records you need to add:
Domain Verification.
Email.
Microsoft Teams.
Microsoft Intune/Mobile Device Management for Microsoft 365.
Domain Verify
Add a TXT record for domain ownership verification
Before you can use your domain with Microsoft 365, you need to prove you own the domain.
Your ability to sign in to your account at your domain registrar and create the DNS record
proves to Microsoft that you own the domain. This process involves creating a TXT record at
your domain registrar with a specific value that Microsoft can look for. When Microsoft finds
the record with the correct value, your domain is verified. The TXT record is used only to

--- Page 489 of 2193 ---
verify that you own your domain. It doesn't affect anything else and can be deleted once
domain verification is complete.
７ Note
The procedures in this section assume that you started the process of adding a domain,
but you didn't verify domain ownership yet.
To add the TXT record for domain verification at Namecheap, follow these steps:
1. Get the TXT value specific for your domain from the Microsoft 365 admin center . For
help on finding the value of your TXT record in the Microsoft 365 admin center, see
Gather the information you need to create DNS records.
2. If you're not already signed in to the Namecheap Advanced DNS page for your
domain, follow the steps in Sign in to Namecheap to manage your domain's DNS
records to get there.
3. In the HOST RECORDS section, select ADD NEW RECORD.

4. In the Type drop-down, select TXT Record. The Type drop-down automatically appears
when you select ADD NEW RECORD.

--- Page 490 of 2193 ---

5. In the boxes for the new record, enter the values from the following table:
ﾉ Expand table
Type Host Value TTL
TXT @ MS=msXXXXXXXX 30 min
In the Value field, replace MS=msXXXXXXXX with the TXT value you gathered
earlier from the Microsoft 365 admin center. The value shown in the table is only
an example.
Select the TTL value from the drop-down menu.

--- Page 491 of 2193 ---

✅
6. Select the Save Changes check mark icon or select the Save All Changes button
located just below the record you added.


--- Page 492 of 2193 ---
7. Wait a few minutes for the TXT record to propagate before continuing.
Now that you added the TXT record at your domain registrar's site, go back to the Microsoft
365 admin center and complete the domain ownership verification process. When Microsoft
365 finds the correct TXT record, your domain is verified.
To verify the record in the Microsoft 365 admin center, follow these steps:
1. Sign in to the Microsoft 365 admin center .
2. From the left navigation bar, select ... Show all, and then select Settings to expand it.
3. Under Settings, select Domains .
⋮
4. In the Domains page, select the ellipsis next to the domain that you're verifying, and
then select Start setup.

5. In the Verify you own your domain page, make sure Add a TXT record to the domain's
DNS records is selected, and then select Continue.
6. On the Add a record to verify domain ownership page, select Verify.
7. After you verify domain ownership, the How do you want to connect your domain?
page appears. The rest of the wizard walks you through adding additional DNS records
to connect your domain to Microsoft 365 services. For more information, see the
following article or the following sections in this article:
Connect to Microsoft services by adding DNS records.
Add an MX record to enable email delivery to Microsoft 365.
Add a CNAME record so email accounts are automatically set up in Outlook and
other email clients.
Add an SPF TXT record to help prevent email spam.
DNS records for Microsoft Teams.

--- Page 493 of 2193 ---
DNS records for Microsoft Intune and Mobile Device Management for Microsoft
365.
Support
If you don't find what you're looking for, check the Domains FAQ.
 Tip
Some configuration tasks might be complex to perform. For technical support, follow these
steps:
1. Sign in to the Microsoft 365 admin center .
2. At the bottom right, select Help & Support.
3. In the Support Assistant pane that opens, enter your question.
4. Review the results. If you still have questions, select Contact support.
To learn about your options for contacting support, see Get support for Microsoft 365 for
business.
Last updated on 05/08/2026

--- Page 494 of 2193 ---
Connect your DNS records at Network
Solutions to Microsoft 365
Check the Domains FAQ if you don't find what you're looking for.
If Network Solutions is your DNS hosting provider, follow the steps in this article to verify your
domain and set up DNS records for email, Skype for Business Online, and so on.
After you add these records at Network Solutions, your domain will be set up to work with
Microsoft services.
７ Note
When creating or updating DNS records, it typically takes about 15 minutes for DNS
changes to take effect. However, it can occasionally take longer for a DNS record change to
update across the Internet's DNS system. If you're having trouble with mail flow or other
issues after adding DNS records, see Find and fix issues after adding your domain or DNS
records.
 Tip
Some configuration tasks might be complex to perform. For technical support, follow these
steps:
1. Sign in to the Microsoft 365 admin center .
2. At the bottom right, select Help & Support.
3. In the Support Assistant pane that opens, enter your question.
4. Review the results. If you still have questions, select Contact support.
To learn about your options for contacting support, see Get support for Microsoft 365 for
business.
Add a TXT record for verification
Before you use your domain with Microsoft, we have to make sure that you own it. Your ability to
log in to your account at your domain registrar and create the DNS record proves to Microsoft

--- Page 495 of 2193 ---
that you own the domain.
７ Note
This record is used only to verify that you own your domain; it doesn't affect anything else.
You can delete it later, if you like.
1. To get started, go to your domains page at Network Solutions by using this link . You'll be
prompted to log in.
2. On the landing page, select Domain Names.
3. Select the check box next to the domain that you want to modify.
4. Under Actions, select the three dots, and then select Manage from the drop-down list.
5. Scroll down to select Advanced Tools, and next to Advanced DNS Records, select
MANAGE.
You might have to select Continue to get to the Manage Advanced DNS Records page.

--- Page 496 of 2193 ---
6. On the Manage Advanced DNS Records page, select +ADD RECORD.
7. Under Type, select TXT from the drop-down list.
8. In the boxes for the new record, type or copy and paste the values in the following table.
ﾉ Expand table
Refers to TXT Value TTL
@ MS=ms XXXXXXXX 3600
(The system will change this value Note: This is an example. Use your specific Destination
to @ (None) when you save the or Points to Address value here, from the table. How do
record.) I find this?
9. Select ADD.

--- Page 497 of 2193 ---
７ Note
Select Classic View in the upper right to view the TXT record you created.
Wait a few minutes before you continue, so that the record you just created can update
across the Internet.
Now that you've added the record at your domain registrar's site, you'll go back to Microsoft and
request the record. When Microsoft finds the correct TXT record, your domain is verified.
To verify the record in Microsoft 365:
1. In the admin center, go to the Settings > Domains .
2. On the Domains page, select the domain that you're verifying, and select Start setup.

--- Page 498 of 2193 ---
3. Select Continue.
4. On the Verify domain page, select Verify.
７ Note
When creating or updating DNS records, it typically takes about 15 minutes for DNS
changes to take effect. However, it can occasionally take longer for a DNS record change to
update across the Internet's DNS system. If you're having trouble with mail flow or other
issues after adding DNS records, see Find and fix issues after adding your domain or DNS
records.
Add an MX record so email for your domain will come
to Microsoft
1. To get started, go to your domains page at Network Solutions by using this link . You'll be
prompted to log in.
2. On the landing page, select Domain Names.
3. Select the check box next to the domain that you want to modify.
4. Under Actions, select the three dots, and then select Manage in the drop-down list.

--- Page 499 of 2193 ---
5. Scroll down to select Advanced Tools, and next to Advanced DNS Records, select
MANAGE.
You might have to select Continue to get to the Manage Advanced DNS Records page.
6. On the Manage Advanced DNS Records page, select +ADD RECORD.

--- Page 500 of 2193 ---
7. Under Type, select MX from the drop-down list.
8. In the boxes for the new record, type or copy and paste the values from the following table.
ﾉ Expand table
Refers Mail server Priority TTL
to
@ <domain-key>.mail.protection.outlook.com 0 1
This value CANNOT end with a period (.) For more information about Hour
Note: Get your <domain-key> from your priority, see What is MX
Microsoft account. How do I find this? priority?
9. Select ADD.

--- Page 501 of 2193 ---
７ Note
Select Classic View in the upper right to view the TXT record you created.
10. If there are any other MX records, delete all of them by selecting the edit tool, and then
Delete for each record.

--- Page 502 of 2193 ---
Add the CNAME record required for Microsoft
1. To get started, go to your domains page at Network Solutions by using this link . You'll be
prompted to log in.
2. On the landing page, select Domain Names.
3. Select the check box next to the domain that you want to modify.
4. Under Actions, select the three dots, and then select Manage in the drop-down list.
5. Select Advanced Tools, and next to Advanced DNS Records, select MANAGE.
You might have to select Continue to get to the Manage Advanced DNS Records page.

--- Page 503 of 2193 ---
6. On the Manage Advanced DNS Records page, select +ADD RECORD.
7. Under Type, select CNAME from the drop-down list.

--- Page 504 of 2193 ---
8. In the boxes for the CNAME record, type or copy and paste the values from the following
table.
ﾉ Expand table
Refers to Host Name Alias to TTL
Other autodiscover autodiscover.outlook.com This value CANNOT end with a period
Host (.)
1 Hour

--- Page 505 of 2193 ---
9. Select ADD.
７ Note
Select Classic View in the upper right to view the record you created.
Add a TXT record for SPF to help prevent email spam
） Important
You cannot have more than one TXT record for SPF for a domain. If your domain has more
than one SPF record, you'll get email errors, as well as delivery and spam classification issues.
If you already have an SPF record for your domain, don't create a new one for Microsoft.
Instead, add the required Microsoft values to the current record so that you have a single
SPF record that includes both sets of values.

--- Page 506 of 2193 ---
1. To get started, go to your domains page at Network Solutions by using this link . You'll be
prompted to log in.
2. On the landing page, select Domain Names.
3. Select the check box next to the domain that you want to modify.
4. Under Actions, select the three dots, and then select Manage in the drop-down list.
5. Select Advanced Tools, and next to Advanced DNS Records, select MANAGE.
You might have to select Continue to get to the Manage Advanced DNS Records page.
6. On the Manage Advanced DNS Records page, select +ADD RECORD.

--- Page 507 of 2193 ---
7. Under Type, select TXT from the drop-down list.

--- Page 508 of 2193 ---
8. In the boxes for the new record, type or copy and paste the following values.
ﾉ Expand table
Refers to TXT Value TTL
@ v=spf1 include:spf.protection.outlook.com -all 1
(The system will change this value Note: We recommend copying and pasting this entry, so Hour
to @ (None) when you save the that all of the spacing stays correct.
record.)
9. Select ADD.
７ Note
Select Classic View in the upper right to view the record you created.

--- Page 509 of 2193 ---
Advanced option: Skype for Business
Only select this option if your organization uses Skype for Business for online communication
services like chat, conference calls, and video calls, in addition to Microsoft Teams. Skype needs 4
records: 2 SRV records for user-to-user communication, and 2 CNAME records to sign-in and
connect users to the service.
Add the two required SRV records
1. To get started, go to your domains page at Network Solutions by using this link . You'll be
prompted to log in.
2. On the landing page, select Domain Names.
3. Select the check box next to the domain that you want to modify.
4. Under Actions, select the three dots, and then select Manage in the drop-down list.
5. Select Advanced Tools, and next to Advanced DNS Records, select MANAGE.
You might have to select Continue to get to the Manage Advanced DNS Records page.

--- Page 510 of 2193 ---
6. On the Manage Advanced DNS Records page, select +ADD RECORD.
7. Under Type, select SRV from the drop-down list.

--- Page 511 of 2193 ---
8. In the boxes for the two new records, type or copy and paste the values from the following
table.
(Choose the Service and Protocol values from the drop-down lists.)
ﾉ Expand table
Type Service Protocol Weight Port Target Priority TTL
SRV _sip TLS 100 443 sipdir.online.lync.com 1 1
This value CANNOT end Hour
with a period (.)
SRV _sipfederationtls TCP 100 5061 sipfed.online.lync.com 1 1
This value CANNOT end Hour

--- Page 512 of 2193 ---
Type Service Protocol Weight Port Target Priority TTL
with a period (.)
9. Select ADD.

--- Page 513 of 2193 ---
７ Note
Select Classic View in the upper right to view the record you created.
10. Add the other SRV record by copying the values from the second row of the table.
７ Note
When creating or updating DNS records, it typically takes about 15 minutes for DNS
changes to take effect. However, it can occasionally take longer for a DNS record change to
update across the Internet's DNS system. If you're having trouble with mail flow or other
issues after adding DNS records, see Find and fix issues after adding your domain or DNS
records.
Add the two required CNAME records for Skype for Business
1. To get started, go to your domains page at Network Solutions by using this link . You'll be
prompted to log in.
2. On the landing page, select Domain Names.
3. Select the check box next to the domain that you want to modify.
4. Under Actions, select the three dots, and then select Manage in the drop-down list.
5. Select Advanced Tools, and next to Advanced DNS Records, select MANAGE.

--- Page 514 of 2193 ---
You might have to select Continue to get to the Manage Advanced DNS Records page.
6. On the Manage Advanced DNS Records page, select + ADD RECORD.
7. Under Type, select CNAME from the drop-down list.

--- Page 515 of 2193 ---
8. In the boxes for the CNAME record, type or copy and paste the values from the following
table.
ﾉ Expand table
Type Refers to Host Name Alias to TTL
CNAME Other Host sip sipdir.online.lync.com 1 Hour
This value CANNOT end with a period (.)
CNAME Other Host lyncdiscover webdir.online.lync.com 1 Hour
This value CANNOT end with a period (.)

--- Page 516 of 2193 ---
9. Select ADD.
７ Note
Select Classic View in the upper right to view the record you created.
10. Add the other CNAME record by copying the values from the second row of the table.
７ Note
When creating or updating DNS records, it typically takes about 15 minutes for DNS
changes to take effect. However, it can occasionally take longer for a DNS record change to
update across the Internet's DNS system. If you're having trouble with mail flow or other
issues after adding DNS records, see Find and fix issues after adding your domain or DNS
records.

--- Page 517 of 2193 ---
Advanced option: Intune and Mobile Device
Management for Microsoft 365
This service helps you secure and remotely manage mobile devices that connect to your domain.
Mobile Device Management needs 2 CNAME records so that users can enroll devices to the
service.
Add the two required CNAME records for Mobile
Device Management
1. To get started, go to your domains page at Network Solutions by using this link . You'll be
prompted to log in.
2. On the landing page, select Domain Names.
3. Select the check box next to the domain that you want to modify.
4. Under Actions, select the three dots, and then select Manage in the drop-down list.
5. Select Advanced Tools, and next to Advanced DNS Records, select MANAGE.

--- Page 518 of 2193 ---
You might have to select Continue to get to the Manage Advanced DNS Records page.
6. On the Manage Advanced DNS Records page, select +ADD RECORD.
7. Under Type, select CNAME from the drop-down list.

--- Page 519 of 2193 ---
8. In the boxes for the CNAME record, type or copy and paste the values from the following
table.
ﾉ Expand table
Type Refers to Host Name Alias to TTL
CNAME Other enterpriseregistration enterpriseregistration.windows.net 1
Host This value CANNOT end with a period (.) Hour
CNAME Other enterpriseenrollment enterpriseenrollment- 1
Host s.manage.microsoft.com Hour
This value CANNOT end with a period (.)

--- Page 520 of 2193 ---
9. Select ADD.
７ Note
Select Classic View in the upper right to view the record you created.
10. Add the other CNAME record by copying the values from the second row of the table.
７ Note
When creating or updating DNS records, it typically takes about 15 minutes for DNS
changes to take effect. However, it can occasionally take longer for a DNS record change to
update across the Internet's DNS system. If you're having trouble with mail flow or other
issues after adding DNS records, see Find and fix issues after adding your domain or DNS
records.

--- Page 521 of 2193 ---
Last updated on 05/08/2026

--- Page 522 of 2193 ---
Connect your DNS records at OVH to
Microsoft 365
Check the Domains FAQ if you don't find what you're looking for.
If OVH is your DNS hosting provider, follow the steps in this article to verify your domain and set
up DNS records for email, Skype for Business Online, and so on.
After you add these records at OVH, your domain will be set up to work with Microsoft services.
７ Note
When creating or updating DNS records, it typically takes about 15 minutes for DNS
changes to take effect. However, it can occasionally take longer for a DNS record change to
update across the Internet's DNS system. If you're having trouble with mail flow or other
issues after adding DNS records, see Find and fix issues after adding your domain or DNS
records.
 Tip
Some configuration tasks might be complex to perform. For technical support, follow these
steps:
1. Sign in to the Microsoft 365 admin center .
2. At the bottom right, select Help & Support.
3. In the Support Assistant pane that opens, enter your question.
4. Review the results. If you still have questions, select Contact support.
To learn about your options for contacting support, see Get support for Microsoft 365 for
business.
Add a TXT record for verification
Before you use your domain with Microsoft, we have to make sure that you own it. Your ability to
log in to your account at your domain registrar and create the DNS record proves to Microsoft
that you own the domain.

--- Page 523 of 2193 ---
７ Note
This record is used only to verify that you own your domain; it doesn't affect anything else.
You can delete it later, if you like.
1. To get started, go to your domains page in OVH by using this link . You'll be prompted to
log in.
2. On the dashboard landing page, under View all my activity, select the name of the domain
that you want edit.
3. Select DNS zone.

--- Page 524 of 2193 ---
4. Select Add an entry.
5. Select TXT

--- Page 525 of 2193 ---
6. In the boxes for the new record, type or copy and paste the values from the following table.
To assign a TTL value, choose Custom from the drop-down list, and then type the value in
the text box.
ﾉ Expand table
Record Sub- TTL Value
type domain
TXT (leave 3600 MS=msxxxxxxxx
blank) (seconds) Note: This is an example. Use your specific Destination or
Points to Address value here, from the table. How do I find
this?
7. Select Next.
8. Select Confirm.

--- Page 526 of 2193 ---
9. Wait a few minutes before you continue, so that the record you just created can update
across the Internet.
Now that you've added the record at your domain registrar's site, you'll go back to Microsoft and
request the record. When Microsoft finds the correct TXT record, your domain is verified.
To verify the record in Microsoft 365:
1. In the admin center, go to the Settings > Domains .
2. On the Domains page, select the domain that you're verifying, and select Start setup.
3. Select Continue.
4. On the Verify domain page, select Verify.

--- Page 527 of 2193 ---
７ Note
When creating or updating DNS records, it typically takes about 15 minutes for DNS
changes to take effect. However, it can occasionally take longer for a DNS record change to
update across the Internet's DNS system. If you're having trouble with mail flow or other
issues after adding DNS records, see Find and fix issues after adding your domain or DNS
records.
Add an MX record so email for your domain will come
to Microsoft
1. To get started, go to your domains page in OVH by using this link . You'll be prompted to
log in.
2. On the dashboard landing page, under View all my activity, select the name of the domain
that you want edit.
3. Select DNS zone.

--- Page 528 of 2193 ---
4. Select Add an entry.
5. Select MX.

--- Page 529 of 2193 ---
6. In the boxes for the new record, type or copy and paste the values from the following table.
To assign a TTL value, choose Custom from the drop-down list, and then type the value in
the text box.
７ Note
By default OVH uses relative notation for the target, which adds the domain name to
the end of the target record. To use absolute notation instead, add a dot to the target
record as shown in the table below.
ﾉ Expand table
Sub- TTL Priority Target
domain
(leave 3600 0 <domain-key>.mail.protection.outlook.com.
blank) (seconds) For more information Note: Get your <domain-key> from your
about priority, see What is Microsoft account. How do I find this?
MX priority?

--- Page 530 of 2193 ---
7. Select Next.
8. Select Confirm.

--- Page 531 of 2193 ---
9. Delete any other MX records in the list on the DNS zone page. Select each record and, in
the Actions column, select the trash-can Delete icon.
10. Select Confirm.

--- Page 532 of 2193 ---
Add the CNAME record required for Microsoft
1. To get started, go to your domains page in OVH by using this link . You'll be prompted to
log in.
2. On the dashboard landing page, under View all my activity, select the name of the domain
that you want edit.
3. Select DNS zone.

--- Page 533 of 2193 ---
4. Select Add an entry.
5. Select CNAME.

--- Page 534 of 2193 ---
6. In the boxes for the new record, type or copy and paste the values from the first row of the
following table. To assign a TTL value, choose Custom from the drop-down list, and then
type the value in the text box.
ﾉ Expand table
Sub-domain TTL Target
autodiscover 3600 (seconds) autodiscover.outlook.com.

--- Page 535 of 2193 ---
7. Select Next.
8. Select Confirm.

--- Page 536 of 2193 ---
Add a TXT record for SPF to help prevent email spam
） Important
You cannot have more than one TXT record for SPF for a domain. If your domain has more
than one SPF record, you'll get email errors, as well as delivery and spam classification issues.
If you already have an SPF record for your domain, don't create a new one for Microsoft.
Instead, add the required Microsoft values to the current record so that you have a single
SPF record that includes both sets of values.
1. To get started, go to your domains page in OVH by using this link . You'll be prompted to
log in.
2. On the dashboard landing page, under View all my activity, select the name of the domain
that you want edit.
3. Select DNS zone.

--- Page 537 of 2193 ---
4. Select Add an entry.
5. Select TXT.

--- Page 538 of 2193 ---
6. In the boxes for the new record, type or copy and paste the following values. To assign a
TTL value, choose Custom from the drop-down list, and then type the value in the text box.
ﾉ Expand table
Sub- TTL Value
domain
(leave 3600 v=spf1 include:spf.protection.outlook.com -all <br/Note: We recommend
blank) (seconds) copying and pasting this entry, so that all of the spacing stays correct.
7. Select Next.

--- Page 539 of 2193 ---
8. Select Confirm.
Advanced option: Skype for Business

--- Page 540 of 2193 ---
Only select this option if your organization uses Skype for Business for online communication
services like chat, conference calls, and video calls, in addition to Microsoft Teams. Skype needs 4
records: 2 SRV records for user-to-user communication, and 2 CNAME records to sign-in and
connect users to the service.
Add the two required SRV records
1. To get started, go to your domains page in OVH by using this link . You'll be prompted to
log in.
2. On the dashboard landing page, under View all my activity, select the name of the domain
that you want edit.
3. Select DNS zone.

--- Page 541 of 2193 ---
4. Select Add an entry.
5. Select SRV.

--- Page 542 of 2193 ---
6. In the boxes for the new record, type or copy and paste the following values. To assign a
TTL value, choose Custom from the drop-down list, and then type the value in the text box.
ﾉ Expand table
Sub-domain TTL Priority Weight Port Target
(Seconds)
_sip._tls 3600 (s.) 100 1 443 sipdir.online.lync.com. This value
MUST end with a period (.)>
Note: We recommend copying and
pasting this entry, so that all of the
spacing stays correct.
_sipfederationtls._tcp 3600 (s.) 100 1 5061 sipfed.online.lync.com. This value
MUST end with a period (.)
Note: We recommend copying and
pasting this entry, so that all of the
spacing stays correct.
7. To add the other SRV record, select Add another record, create a record using the values
from the next row in the table, and then select Create records.
７ Note
When creating or updating DNS records, it typically takes about 15 minutes for DNS
changes to take effect. However, it can occasionally take longer for a DNS record change to
update across the Internet's DNS system. If you're having trouble with mail flow or other
issues after adding DNS records, see Find and fix issues after adding your domain or DNS
records.
Add the two required CNAME records for Skype for Business
1. To get started, go to your domains page in OVH by using this link . You'll be prompted to
log in.

--- Page 543 of 2193 ---
2. On the dashboard landing page, under View all my activity, select the name of the domain
that you want edit.
3. Select DNS zone.

--- Page 544 of 2193 ---
4. Select Add an entry.
5. Select CNAME.

--- Page 545 of 2193 ---
6. In the boxes for the new record, type or copy and paste the values from the first row of the
following table. To assign a TTL value, choose Custom from the drop-down list, and then
type the value in the text box.
ﾉ Expand table
Sub-domain TTL Target
sip 3600 (s.) sipdir.online.lync.com.
This value MUST end with a period (.)
lyncdiscover 3600 (s.) webdir.online.lync.com.
This value MUST end with a period (.)
7. Select Next.
8. Select Confirm.
9. Add the other CNAME record.
７ Note
When creating or updating DNS records, it typically takes about 15 minutes for DNS
changes to take effect. However, it can occasionally take longer for a DNS record change to

--- Page 546 of 2193 ---
update across the Internet's DNS system. If you're having trouble with mail flow or other
issues after adding DNS records, see Find and fix issues after adding your domain or DNS
records.
Advanced option: Intune and Mobile Device
Management for Microsoft 365
This service helps you secure and remotely manage mobile devices that connect to your domain.
Mobile Device Management needs two CNAME records so that users can enroll devices to the
service.
Add the two required CNAME records for Mobile
Device Management
1. To get started, go to your domains page in OVH by using this link . You'll be prompted to
log in.
2. On the dashboard landing page, under View all my activity, select the name of the domain
that you want edit.
3. Select DNS zone.

--- Page 547 of 2193 ---
4. Select Add an entry.
5. Select CNAME.

--- Page 548 of 2193 ---
6. In the boxes for the new record, type or copy and paste the values from the first row of the
following table. To assign a TTL value, choose Custom from the drop-down list, and then
type the value in the text box.
ﾉ Expand table
Sub-domain TTL Target
enterpriseregistration 3600 (s.) enterpriseregistration.windows.net.
This value MUST end with a period (.)
enterpriseenrollment 3600 (s.) enterpriseenrollment-s.manage.microsoft.com.
This value MUST end with a period (.)
7. Select Next.

--- Page 549 of 2193 ---
8. Select Confirm.
9. Add the other CNAME record.
７ Note
When creating or updating DNS records, it typically takes about 15 minutes for DNS
changes to take effect. However, it can occasionally take longer for a DNS record change to
update across the Internet's DNS system. If you're having trouble with mail flow or other
issues after adding DNS records, see Find and fix issues after adding your domain or DNS
records.
Last updated on 05/08/2026

--- Page 550 of 2193 ---
Connect your DNS records at web.com to
Microsoft 365
Check the Domains FAQ if you don't find what you're looking for.
If web.com is your DNS hosting provider, follow the steps in this article to verify your domain and
set up DNS records for email, Skype for Business Online, and so on.
After you add these records at web.com, your domain will be set up to work with Microsoft
services.
７ Note
When creating or updating DNS records, it typically takes about 15 minutes for DNS
changes to take effect. However, it can occasionally take longer for a DNS record change to
update across the Internet's DNS system. If you're having trouble with mail flow or other
issues after adding DNS records, see Find and fix issues after adding your domain or DNS
records.
 Tip
Some configuration tasks might be complex to perform. For technical support, follow these
steps:
1. Sign in to the Microsoft 365 admin center .
2. At the bottom right, select Help & Support.
3. In the Support Assistant pane that opens, enter your question.
4. Review the results. If you still have questions, select Contact support.
To learn about your options for contacting support, see Get support for Microsoft 365 for
business.
Change your domain's nameserver (NS) records
） Important

--- Page 551 of 2193 ---
You must perform this procedure at the domain registrar where you purchased and
registered your domain.
When you signed up for web.com, you added a domain by using the web.com Setup process.
To verify and create DNS records for your domain in Microsoft, you first need to change the
nameservers at your domain registrar so that they use the web.com nameservers.
To change your domain's name servers at your domain registrar's website yourself, follow these
steps.
1. Find the area on the domain registrar's website where you can edit the nameservers for
your domain.
2. Either create two nameserver records by using the values in the following table, or edit the
existing nameserver records so that they match these values.
ﾉ Expand table
Type Value
First nameserver Use the nameserver value provided by web.com.
Second nameserver Use the nameserver value provided by web.com.
 Tip
You should use at least two name server records. If there are any other name servers
listed, you should delete them.
3. Save your changes.
７ Note
Your nameserver record updates may take up to several hours to update across the
Internet's DNS system. Then your Microsoft email and other services will be all set to work
with your domain.
Add a TXT record for verification

--- Page 552 of 2193 ---
Before you use your domain with Microsoft, we have to make sure that you own it. Your ability to
log in to your account at your domain registrar and create the DNS record proves to Microsoft
that you own the domain.
７ Note
This record is used only to verify that you own your domain; it doesn't affect anything else.
You can delete it later, if you like.
1. To get started, go to your domains page at web.com by using this link . Log in first.
2. On the landing page, select Domain Names.
3. Under Actions, select the three dots, and then select Manage in the drop-down list.
4. Scroll down to select Advanced Tools, and next to Advanced DNS Records, select
MANAGE.
You might have to select Continue to get to the Manage Advanced DNS Records page.

--- Page 553 of 2193 ---
5. On the Manage Advanced DNS Records page, select + ADD RECORD.
6. Under Type, select TXT from the drop-down list.

--- Page 554 of 2193 ---
7. Select, or copy and paste, the values from the following table.
ﾉ Expand table
Refers TXT value TTL
@ MS=msXXXXXXXX 1
Note: This is an example. Use your specific Destination or Points to Address value Hour
here, from the table. How do I find this?
8. Select ADD.
Wait a few minutes before you verify your new TXT record, so that the record you just
created can update across the Internet.
Now that you've added the record at your domain registrar's site, you'll go back to Microsoft and
request the record. When Microsoft finds the correct TXT record, your domain is verified.

--- Page 555 of 2193 ---
To verify the record in Microsoft 365:
1. In the admin center, go to the Settings > Domains .
2. On the Domains page, select the domain that you're verifying, and select Start setup.
3. Select Continue.
4. On the Verify domain page, select Verify.
７ Note
When creating or updating DNS records, it typically takes about 15 minutes for DNS
changes to take effect. However, it can occasionally take longer for a DNS record change to
update across the Internet's DNS system. If you're having trouble with mail flow or other
issues after adding DNS records, see Find and fix issues after adding your domain or DNS
records.
Add an MX record so email for your domain will come
to Microsoft
1. To get started, go to your domains page at web.com by using this link . Log in first.
2. On the landing page, select Domain Names.
3. Under Actions, select the three dots, and then select Manage in the drop-down list.

--- Page 556 of 2193 ---
4. Scroll down to select Advanced Tools, and next to Advanced DNS Records, select
MANAGE.
You might have to select Continue to get to the Manage Advanced DNS Records page.
5. On the Manage Advanced DNS Records page, select + ADD RECORD.

--- Page 557 of 2193 ---
6. Under Type, select MX from the drop-down list.
7. Select, or copy and paste, the values from the following table.
ﾉ Expand table
Refers Mail server Priority TTL
to
@ <domain-key>.mail.protection.outlook.com For more information about 1
Note: Get your <domain-key> from the Microsoft priority, see What is MX Hour
admin center. How do I find this? priority?
1
8. Select ADD.

--- Page 558 of 2193 ---
9. If there are any other MX records, delete all of them by selecting the edit tool, and then
Delete for each record.
Add the CNAME record required for Microsoft

--- Page 559 of 2193 ---
1. To get started, go to your domains page at web.com by using this link . Log in first.
2. On the landing page, select Domain Names.
3. Under Actions, select the three dots, and then select Manage in the drop-down list.
4. Scroll down to select Advanced Tools, and next to Advanced DNS Records, select
MANAGE.
You might have to select Continue to get to the Manage Advanced DNS Records page.
5. On the Manage Advanced DNS Records page, select + ADD RECORD.

--- Page 560 of 2193 ---
6. Under Type, select CNAME from the drop-down list.

--- Page 561 of 2193 ---
7. Select, or copy and paste, the values from the following table.
ﾉ Expand table
Refers to Host name Alias to TTL
Other Host autodiscover autodiscover.outlook.com 1 Hour

--- Page 562 of 2193 ---
8. Select ADD.
Add a TXT record for SPF to help prevent email spam
） Important
You cannot have more than one TXT record for SPF for a domain. If your domain has more
than one SPF record, you'll get email errors, as well as delivery and spam classification issues.
If you already have an SPF record for your domain, don't create a new one for Microsoft.
Instead, add the required Microsoft values to the current record so that you have a single
SPF record that includes both sets of values.
1. To get started, go to your domains page at web.com by using this link . Log in first.
2. On the landing page, select Domain Names.
3. Under Actions, select the three dots, and then select Manage in the drop-down list.

--- Page 563 of 2193 ---
4. Scroll down to select Advanced Tools, and next to Advanced DNS Records, select
MANAGE.
You might have to select Continue to get to the Manage Advanced DNS Records page.
5. On the Manage Advanced DNS Records page, select + ADD RECORD.

--- Page 564 of 2193 ---
6. Under Type, select TXT from the drop-down list.

--- Page 565 of 2193 ---
7. Select, or copy and paste, the values from the following table.
ﾉ Expand table
Refers TXT value TTL
to
@ v=spf1 include:spf.protection.outlook.com -all 1
Note: We recommend copying and pasting this entry, so that all of the spacing Hour
stays correct.
8. Select ADD.
Advanced option: Skype for Business
Only select this option if your organization uses Skype for Business for online communication
services like chat, conference calls, and video calls, in addition to Microsoft Teams. Skype needs 4

--- Page 566 of 2193 ---
records: 2 SRV records for user-to-user communication, and 2 CNAME records to sign-in and
connect users to the service.
Add the two required SRV records
1. To get started, go to your domains page at web.com by using this link . Log in first.
2. On the landing page, select Domain Names.
3. Under Actions, select the three dots, and then select Manage in the drop-down list.
4. Scroll down to select Advanced Tools, and next to Advanced DNS Records, select
MANAGE.
You might have to select Continue to get to the Manage Advanced DNS Records page.

--- Page 567 of 2193 ---
5. On the Manage Advanced DNS Records page, select + ADD RECORD.
6. Under Type, select SRV from the drop-down list.

--- Page 568 of 2193 ---
7. Select, or copy and paste, the values from the following table.
ﾉ Expand table
Type Service Protocol Weight Port Target Priority TTL
SRV _sip TLS 100 443 sipdir.online.lync.com 1 1
This value CANNOT end Hour
with a period (.)
SRV _sipfederationtls TCP 100 5061 sipfed.online.lync.com 1 1
This value CANNOT end Hour
with a period (.)

--- Page 569 of 2193 ---
8. Select ADD.
9. Add the other SRV record by copying the values from the second row of the table.

--- Page 570 of 2193 ---
７ Note
When creating or updating DNS records, it typically takes about 15 minutes for DNS
changes to take effect. However, it can occasionally take longer for a DNS record change to
update across the Internet's DNS system. If you're having trouble with mail flow or other
issues after adding DNS records, see Find and fix issues after adding your domain or DNS
records.
Add the two required CNAME records for Skype for Business
1. To get started, go to your domains page at web.com by using this link . Log in first.
2. On the landing page, select Domain Names.
3. Under Actions, select the three dots, and then select Manage in the drop-down list.
4. Scroll down to select Advanced Tools, and next to Advanced DNS Records, select
MANAGE.

--- Page 571 of 2193 ---
You might have to select Continue to get to the Manage Advanced DNS Records page.
5. On the Manage Advanced DNS Records page, select + ADD RECORD.
6. Under Type, select CNAME from the drop-down list.

--- Page 572 of 2193 ---
7. Select, or copy and paste, the values from the following table.
ﾉ Expand table
Type Refers to Host Name Alias to TTL
CNAME Other Host sip sipdir.online.lync.com 1 Hour
This value CANNOT end with a period (.)
CNAME Other Host lyncdiscover webdir.online.lync.com 1 Hour
This value CANNOT end with a period (.)

--- Page 573 of 2193 ---
8. Select ADD.
9. Add the other CNAME record by copying the values from the second row of the table.
７ Note
When creating or updating DNS records, it typically takes about 15 minutes for DNS
changes to take effect. However, it can occasionally take longer for a DNS record change to
update across the Internet's DNS system. If you're having trouble with mail flow or other
issues after adding DNS records, see Find and fix issues after adding your domain or DNS
records.
Advanced option: Intune and Mobile Device
Management for Microsoft 365

--- Page 574 of 2193 ---
This service helps you secure and remotely manage mobile devices that connect to your domain.
Mobile Device Management needs 2 CNAME records so that users can enroll devices to the
service.
Add the two required CNAME records for Mobile
Device Management
1. To get started, go to your domains page at web.com by using this link . Log in first.
2. On the landing page, select Domain Names.
3. Under Actions, select the three dots, and then select Manage in the drop-down list.
4. Scroll down to select Advanced Tools, and next to Advanced DNS Records, select
MANAGE.
You might have to select Continue to get to the Manage Advanced DNS Records page.

--- Page 575 of 2193 ---
5. On the Manage Advanced DNS Records page, select + ADD RECORD.
6. Under Type, select CNAME from the drop-down list.

--- Page 576 of 2193 ---
7. Select, or copy and paste, the values from the following table.
ﾉ Expand table
Type Refers to Host Name Alias to TTL
CNAME Other enterpriseregistration enterpriseregistration.windows.net 1
Host This value CANNOT end with a period (.) Hour
CNAME Other enterpriseenrollment enterpriseenrollment- 1
Host s.manage.microsoft.com Hour
This value CANNOT end with a period (.)

--- Page 577 of 2193 ---
8. Select ADD.
9. Add the other CNAME record by copying the values from the second row of the table.
７ Note
When creating or updating DNS records, it typically takes about 15 minutes for DNS
changes to take effect. However, it can occasionally take longer for a DNS record change to
update across the Internet's DNS system. If you're having trouble with mail flow or other
issues after adding DNS records, see Find and fix issues after adding your domain or DNS
records.
Last updated on 05/08/2026

--- Page 578 of 2193 ---
Connect your DNS records at Wix to
Microsoft 365
Check the Domains FAQ if you don't find what you're looking for.
If Wix is your DNS hosting provider, follow the steps in this article to verify your domain and set
up DNS records for email, Skype for Business Online, and so on.
After you add these records at Wix, your domain will be set up to work with Microsoft services.
７ Note
When creating or updating DNS records, it typically takes about 15 minutes for DNS
changes to take effect. However, it can occasionally take longer for a DNS record change to
update across the Internet's DNS system. If you're having trouble with mail flow or other
issues after adding DNS records, see Find and fix issues after adding your domain or DNS
records.
 Tip
Some configuration tasks might be complex to perform. For technical support, follow these
steps:
1. Sign in to the Microsoft 365 admin center .
2. At the bottom right, select Help & Support.
3. In the Support Assistant pane that opens, enter your question.
4. Review the results. If you still have questions, select Contact support.
To learn about your options for contacting support, see Get support for Microsoft 365 for
business.
Add a TXT record for verification
Before you use your domain with Microsoft, we have to make sure you own it. Your ability to log
in to your account at your domain registrar and create the DNS record proves to Microsoft that
you own the domain.

--- Page 579 of 2193 ---
７ Note
This record is used only to verify that you own your domain; it doesn't affect anything else.
You can delete it later if you like.
７ Note
WIX does not support DNS entries for subdomains.
1. Make sure you have added a domain in the Microsoft 365 Admin Center using the steps in
Add a domain, and that the domain has not already been verified. You'll need to copy the
TXT value from the Add a record to verify ownership page for use later in this procedure.
2. Go to your domains page at Wix by using this link . You're prompted to log in first.
3. From the left-hand navigation bar, select Domains.
4. Find the domain you wish to configure, select the three dots (...) to the right, and then
select Manage DNS Records from the dropdown list.
5. Select + Add Record in the TXT (Text) row of the DNS editor.

--- Page 580 of 2193 ---
6. In the boxes for the new record, type or copy and paste the values from the following table.
You'll use the TXT value you copied earlier (MS=msXXXXXXXX).
ﾉ Expand table
Host Name TXT Value TTL
Automatically populated MS=msXXXXXXXX One
(leave blank) Note: This is an example. Use your specific Destination or Points Hour
to Address value here, from the table. How do I find this?
7. SelectSave.
Wait a few minutes before you continue, so that the record you created can update across
the Internet.
Now that you added the record at your domain registrar's site, go back to Microsoft and request
the record. When Microsoft finds the correct TXT record, your domain is verified.
To verify the record in Microsoft 365:
1. In the admin center, go to the Settings > Domains .
2. On the Domains page, select the domain that you're verifying, and select Start setup.

--- Page 581 of 2193 ---
3. Select Continue.
4. On the Verify domain page, select Verify.
７ Note
When creating or updating DNS records, it typically takes about 15 minutes for DNS
changes to take effect. However, it can occasionally take longer for a DNS record change to
update across the Internet's DNS system. If you're having trouble with mail flow or other
issues after adding DNS records, see Find and fix issues after adding your domain or DNS
records.
Add an MX record so email for your domain comes
to Microsoft
1. To get started, go to your domains page at Wix by using this link . You're prompted to log
in first.
2. From the left-hand navigation bar, select Domains.
3. Find the domain you wish to configure, select the three dots (...) to the right, and then
select Manage DNS Records from the dropdown list.

--- Page 582 of 2193 ---
4. Under MX (Mail exchange), select the link connect a business email.
5. Choose Other from the drop-down list, and select + Add record.

--- Page 583 of 2193 ---
6. In the boxes for the new record, type or copy and paste the values from the following table:
ﾉ Expand table
Host Name Points to Priority TTL
Automatically <domain-key>.mail.protection.outlook.com 0 One
populated Note: Get your <domain-key> from your For more information Hour
Microsoft account. How do I find this? about priority, see What
is MX priority?
7. If there are any other MX records listed, delete each of them.

--- Page 584 of 2193 ---
1. Select Save.
Add the CNAME record required for Microsoft
1. To get started, go to your domains page at Wix by using this link . You're prompted to log
in first.
2. From the left-hand navigation bar, select Domains.
3. Find the domain you wish to configure, select the three dots (...) to the right, and then
select Manage DNS Records from the dropdown list.

--- Page 585 of 2193 ---
4. Select + Add Record in the CNAME (Aliases) row of the DNS editor for the CNAME record.
5. In the boxes for the new record, type or copy and paste the values from the following table:
ﾉ Expand table
Host Name Value TTL
autodiscover autodiscover.outlook.com One Hour
6. Select Save.

--- Page 586 of 2193 ---
Wait a few minutes before you continue, so that the record you created can update across
the Internet.
Add a TXT record for SPF to help prevent email spam
） Important
You cannot have more than one TXT record for SPF for a domain. If your domain has more
than one SPF record, you'll get email errors, as well as delivery and spam classification issues.
If you already have an SPF record for your domain, don't create a new one for Microsoft.
Instead, add the required Microsoft values to the current record so that you have a single
SPF record that includes both sets of values.
1. To get started, go to your domains page at Wix by using this link . You're prompted to log
in first.
2. From the left-hand navigation bar, select Domains.
3. Find the domain you wish to configure, select the three dots (...) to the right, and then
select Manage DNS Records from the dropdown list.

--- Page 587 of 2193 ---
4. Select + Add Record in the TXT (Text) row of the DNS editor.
Note: Wix provides an SPF row in the DNS editor. Ignore that row and use the TXT (Text)
row to enter the SPF values below.
5. In the boxes for the new record, type or copy and paste the values from the following table:
ﾉ Expand table
Host Name Value TTL
[leave this v=spf1 include:spf.protection.outlook.com -all One
blank] Note: We recommend copying and pasting this entry, so that all of the Hour
spacing stays correct.
6. Select Save.

--- Page 588 of 2193 ---
Wait a few minutes before you continue, so that the record you created can update across
the Internet.
Advanced option: Skype for Business
Only select this option if your organization uses Skype for Business for online communication
services like chat, conference calls, and video calls, in addition to Microsoft Teams. Skype needs
four records: two SRV records for user-to-user communication, and two CNAME records to sign-
in and connect users to the service.
Add the two required SRV records
1. To get started, go to your domains page at Wix by using this link . You're prompted to log
in first.
2. From the left-hand navigation bar, select Domains.
3. Find the domain you wish to configure, select the three dots (...) to the right, and then
select Manage DNS Records from the dropdown list.

--- Page 589 of 2193 ---
4. Select + Add Record in the SRV row of the DNS editor.
5. In the boxes for the new record, type or copy and paste the values from the first row in the
table:
ﾉ Expand table
Service Protocol Host name Weight Port Target Priority TTL
sip tls Automatically 1 443 sipdir.online.lync.com 100 One
populated Hour
sipfed tcp Automatically 1 5061 sipfed.online.lync.com 100 One
populated Hour
6. Select Save.

--- Page 590 of 2193 ---
7. Add the other SRV record by copying the values from the second row of the table.
７ Note
When creating or updating DNS records, it typically takes about 15 minutes for DNS
changes to take effect. However, it can occasionally take longer for a DNS record change to
update across the Internet's DNS system. If you're having trouble with mail flow or other
issues after adding DNS records, see Find and fix issues after adding your domain or DNS
records.
Add the two required CNAME records for Skype for Business
1. Select + Add another in the CNAME (Aliases) row of the DNS editor, and enter the values
from the first row in the following table.
ﾉ Expand table
Type Host Value TTL
CNAME sip sipdir.online.lync.com. One Hour
This value MUST end with a period (.)
CNAME lyncdiscover webdir.online.lync.com. One Hour
This value MUST end with a period (.)
2. Select Save.

--- Page 591 of 2193 ---
3. Add the other CNAME record by copying the values from the second row of the table.
７ Note
When creating or updating DNS records, it typically takes about 15 minutes for DNS
changes to take effect. However, it can occasionally take longer for a DNS record change to
update across the Internet's DNS system. If you're having trouble with mail flow or other
issues after adding DNS records, see Find and fix issues after adding your domain or DNS
records.
Advanced option: Intune and Mobile Device
Management for Microsoft 365
This service helps you secure and remotely manage mobile devices that connect to your domain.
Mobile Device Management needs two CNAME records so that users can enroll devices to the
service.
Add the two required CNAME records for Mobile
Device Management
1. To get started, go to your domains page at Wix by using this link . You're prompted to log
in first.
2. From the left-hand navigation bar, select Domains.
3. Find the domain you wish to configure, select the three dots (...) to the right, and then
select Manage DNS Records from the dropdown list.

--- Page 592 of 2193 ---
4. Select + Add Record in the CNAME (Aliases) row of the DNS editor for the CNAME record.
5. Enter the values from the first row in the following table.
ﾉ Expand table
Type Host Value TTL
CNAME enterpriseregistration enterpriseregistration.windows.net. One Hour
This value MUST end with a period (.)
CNAME enterpriseenrollment enterpriseenrollment.manage.microsoft.com. One Hour
This value MUST end with a period (.)
6. Select Save.

--- Page 593 of 2193 ---
7. Add the other CNAME record by copying the values from the second row of the table.
７ Note
When creating or updating DNS records, it typically takes about 15 minutes for DNS
changes to take effect. However, it can occasionally take longer for a DNS record change to
update across the Internet's DNS system. If you're having trouble with mail flow or other
issues after adding DNS records, see Find and fix issues after adding your domain or DNS
records.
Last updated on 05/08/2026

--- Page 594 of 2193 ---
Create DNS records for Microsoft using
Windows-based DNS
Check the Domains FAQ if you don't find what you're looking for.
If you host your own DNS records using Windows-based DNS, follow the steps in this article to
set up your records for email, Skype for Business Online, and so on.
To get started, you need to find your DNS records in Windows-based DNS so you can update
them. Also, if you're planning to synchronize your on-premises Active Directory with Microsoft,
see Non-routable email address used as a UPN in your on-premises Active Directory.
Trouble with mail flow or other issues after adding DNS records, see Troubleshoot issues after
changing your domain name or DNS records.
 Tip
Some configuration tasks might be complex to perform. For technical support, follow these
steps:
1. Sign in to the Microsoft 365 admin center .
2. At the bottom right, select Help & Support.
3. In the Support Assistant pane that opens, enter your question.
4. Review the results. If you still have questions, select Contact support.
To learn about your options for contacting support, see Get support for Microsoft 365 for
business.
Find your DNS records in Windows-based DNS
Go to the page that has the DNS records for your domain. If you're working in Windows Server
2008, go to Start > Run. If you're working in Windows Server 2012, press the Windows key and r.
Type dnsmgmnt.msc, and then select OK. In DNS Manager, expand <DNS server name> >
Forward Lookup Zones. Select your domain. You're now ready to create the DNS records.
Add MX record

--- Page 595 of 2193 ---
Add an MX record so email for your domain will come to Microsoft.
The MX record you'll add includes a value (the Points to address value) that looks
something like this: <MX token>.mail.protection.outlook.com, where <MX token> is a value
like MSxxxxxxx.
From the MX row in the Exchange Online section of the Add DNS records page in Microsoft,
copy the value listed under Points to address. You'll use this value in the record you're
creating in this task.
On the DNS Manager page for the domain, go to Action > Mail Exchanger (MX). To find
this page for the domain, see Find your DNS records in Windows-based DNS.
In the New Resource Record dialog box, make sure that the fields are set to precisely the
following values:
Host Name:
@Address: Paste the Points to address value that you just copied from Microsoft here.
Pref:
Select Save Changes.
Remove any obsolete MX records. If you have any old MX records for this domain that route
email somewhere else, select the check box next to each old record, and then select Delete
> OK.
Add CNAME records
Add the CNAME records that are required for Microsoft. If other CNAME records are listed in
Microsoft, add those following the same general steps shown here.
） Important
If you have Mobile Device Management (MDM) for Microsoft, then you must create two
more CNAME records. Follow the procedure that you used for the other four CNAME
records, but supply the values from the following table. (If you don't have MDM, you can
skip this step.)
On the DNS Manager page for the domain, go to Action > CNAME (CNAME).
In the New Resource Record dialog box, make sure that the fields are set to precisely the
following values:
Host Name: autodiscover
Type:
CNAMEAddress: autodiscover.outlook.com

--- Page 596 of 2193 ---
Select OK.
Add the SIP CNAME record.
On the DNS Manager page for the domain, go to Action > CNAME (CNAME).
In the New Resource Record dialog box, make sure that the fields are set to precisely the
following values:
Host Name: sip
Type: CNAME
Address: sipdir.online.lync.com
Select OK.
Add the Skype for Business Online Autodiscover CNAME record.
On the DNS Manager page for the domain, go to Action > CNAME (CNAME). In the New
Resource Record dialog box, make sure that the fields are set to precisely the following
values:
Host Name: lyncdiscover
Type: CNAME
Address: webdir.online.lync.com
Select OK.
Add two CNAME records for Mobile Device Management
(MDM) for Microsoft
） Important
If you have Mobile Device Management (MDM) for Microsoft, then you must create two
more CNAME records. Follow the procedure that you used for the other four CNAME
records, but supply the values from the following table. >(If you don't have MDM, you can
skip this step.)
Add the MDM Enterpriseregistration CNAME record.
On the DNS Manager page for the domain, go to Action > CNAME (CNAME).
In the New Resource Record dialog box, make sure that the fields are set to precisely the
following values:
Host Name: enterpriseregistration
Type: CNAME

--- Page 597 of 2193 ---
Address: enterpriseregistration.windows.net
Select OK.
Add the MDM Enterpriseenrollment CNAME record.
On the DNS Manager page for the domain, go to Action > CNAME (CNAME).
In the New Resource Record dialog box, make sure that the fields are set to precisely the
following values:
Host Name: enterpriseenrollment
Type: CNAME
Address: enterpriseenrollment-s.manage.microsoft.com
Select OK.
Add a TXT record for SPF to help prevent email spam
） Important
You can't have more than one TXT record for SPF for a domain. If your domain has more
than one SPF record, you'll get email errors, as well as delivery and spam classification issues.
If you already have an SPF record for your domain, don't create a new one for Microsoft.
Instead, add the required Microsoft values to the current record so that you have a single
SPF record that includes both sets of values.
Add the SPF TXT record for your domain to help prevent email spam.
You might already have other strings in the TXT value for this record (such as strings for
marketing email), which is fine. Leave those strings in place and add this one, placing
double-quotes around each string to separate them.
On the DNS Manager page for your domain, go to Action > Text (TXT).
In the New Resource Record dialog box, make sure that the fields are set to precisely the
following values.
） Important
In some versions of Windows DNS Manager, the domain may have been set up so that when
you create a txt record, the home name defaults to the parent domain. In this situation,
when adding a TXT record, set the host name to blank (no value) instead of setting it to @
or the domain name.

--- Page 598 of 2193 ---
Host type: @
Record Type: TXT
Address: v=spf1 include:spf.protection.outlook.com -all
Select OK.
Add SRV records
Add the two SRV records that are required for Microsoft.
Add the SIP SRV record for Skype for Business Online web conferencing.
On the DNS Manager page for your domain, go to Action > Other New Records.
In the Resource Record Type window, select Service Location (SRV), and then select Create
Record.
In the New Resource Record dialog box, make sure that the fields are set to precisely the
following values:
Service: _sip
Protocol: _tls
Priority: 100
Weight: 1
Port: 443
Target (Hostname): sipdir.online.lync.com
Select OK.
Add the SIP SRV record for Skype for Business Online federation.
On the DNS Manager page for your domain, go to Action > Other New Records.
In the Resource Record Type window, select Service Location (SRV), and then select Create
Record.
In the New Resource Record dialog box, make sure that the fields are set to precisely the
following values:
Service: _sipfederationtls
Protocol: _tcp
Priority: 100
Weight: 1
Port: 5061
Target (Hostname): sipfed.online.lync.com

--- Page 599 of 2193 ---
Select OK.
Add a record to verify that you own the domain, if you
haven't already
Before you add the DNS records to set up your Microsoft services, Microsoft has to confirm that
you own the domain you're adding. To do this, you add a record, following the steps after this.
７ Note
This record is used only to verify that you own your domain; it doesn't affect anything else.
1. Gather information from Microsoft.
2. In the admin center, go to the Settings > Domains page.
3. On the Domains page, in the Actions column for the domain that you're verifying, select
Start setup.
4. On the Add a domain to Microsoft page, select Start step 1.
5. On the Confirm that you own your domain page, in the See instructions for performing
this step with drop-down list, choose General instructions.
6. From the table, copy the Destination or Points to Address value. You'll need it for the next
step. We recommend copying and pasting this value, so that all of the spacing stays correct.
Add a TXT record.
On the DNS Manager page for your domain, go to Action > Text (TXT).
In the New Resource Record dialog box, select Edit.
In the Custom Host Names area of the New Resource Record dialog box, make sure that
the fields are set to precisely the following values.
） Important
In some versions of Windows DNS Manager, the domain may have been set up so that when
you create a txt record, the home name defaults to the parent domain. In this situation,
when adding a TXT record, set the host name to blank (no value) instead of setting it to @
or the domain name.
Host Name: @
Type: TXT

--- Page 600 of 2193 ---
Address: Paste the Destination or Points to Address value that you just copied from
Microsoft here.
Select OK > Done.
Verify your domain in Microsoft.
） Important
Wait about 15 minutes before you do this, so the record you just created can update across
the Internet.
Go back to Microsoft and follow the steps after this to request a verification check. The
check looks for the TXT record you added in the previous step. When it finds the correct
TXT record, the domain is verified.
1. In the admin center, go to the Setup > Domains page.
2. On the Domains page, in the Action column for the domain you're verifying, select Start
setup.
3. On the Confirm that you own your domain page, select done, verify now, and then in the
confirmation dialog box, select Finish.
７ Note
When creating or updating DNS records, it typically takes about 15 minutes for DNS
changes to take effect. However, it can occasionally take longer for a DNS record change to
update across the Internet's DNS system. If you're having trouble with mail flow or other
issues after adding DNS records, see Find and fix issues after adding your domain or DNS
records.
Non-routable email address used as a UPN in your on-
premises Active Directory
If you're planning to synchronize your on-premises Active Directory with Microsoft, you'll want to
make sure that the Active Directory user principal name (UPN) suffix is a valid domain suffix, and
not an unsupported domain suffix such as @contoso.local. If you need to change your UPN
suffix, see How to prepare a non-routable domain for directory synchronization.

--- Page 601 of 2193 ---
７ Note
When creating or updating DNS records, it typically takes about 15 minutes for DNS
changes to take effect. However, it can occasionally take longer for a DNS record change to
update across the Internet's DNS system. If you're having trouble with mail flow or other
issues after adding DNS records, see Find and fix issues after adding your domain or DNS
records.
Related content
Transfer a domain from Microsoft 365 to another host (article)
Pilot Microsoft 365 from my custom domain (article)
Domains FAQ (article)
Last updated on 05/08/2026

--- Page 602 of 2193 ---
Defederation Process for Microsoft 365
Admins Using GoDaddy
As a Microsoft 365 admin, you might need to defederate your Microsoft 365 account from
GoDaddy. This process involves several steps that must be followed carefully to avoid issues with
signing in to services like SharePoint and other Microsoft 365 applications.
 Tip
Some configuration tasks might be complex to perform. For technical support, follow these
steps:
1. Sign in to the Microsoft 365 admin center .
2. At the bottom right, select Help & Support.
3. In the Support Assistant pane that opens, enter your question.
4. Review the results. If you still have questions, select Contact support.
To learn about your options for contacting support, see Get support for Microsoft 365 for
business.
Defederation Process Overview
To defederate your Microsoft 365 account from GoDaddy, refer to the official GoDaddy
documentation. GoDaddy provides a comprehensive guide on how to move your Microsoft 365
email away from their platform. See the following link for detailed instructions:
Move my Microsoft 365 email away from GoDaddy
Disclaimer
Microsoft and GoDaddy don't support the use of unauthorized third-party sites or steps to
complete the defederation process. Using unofficial resources can affect your ability to sign in to
Microsoft 365 services such as SharePoint or your mailbox, and might cause further
complications.
Additional Support

--- Page 603 of 2193 ---
If you encounter issues during the defederation process, it's recommended to contact GoDaddy
support for assistance. They can provide specific guidance and help ensure that the process is
completed correctly.
） Note: The author created this article with assistance from AI. Learn more
Last updated on 04/23/2026

--- Page 604 of 2193 ---
Find and fix issues after adding your domain
or DNS records
Check out all of our small business content on Small business help & learning .
Check the Domains FAQ if you don't find what you're looking for.
Getting your domain set up to work with Microsoft 365 can be challenging. The DNS system is nit
picky to work with, and the DNS setup for your domain affects important business activities, like
email!
７ Note
You can check for problems with your domain by checking its status. Go to Setup >
Domains and view the notifications in the Status column. If you see an issue, select the three
dots (more actions), and then choose Check health. The pane that opens will describe any
issues occurring with your domain.
 Tip
Some configuration tasks might be complex to perform. For technical support, follow these
steps:
1. Sign in to the Microsoft 365 admin center .
2. At the bottom right, select Help & Support.
3. In the Support Assistant pane that opens, enter your question.
4. Review the results. If you still have questions, select Contact support.
To learn about your options for contacting support, see Get support for Microsoft 365 for
business.
What's going on?
Can't verify your domain?
Outlook isn't working?

--- Page 605 of 2193 ---
Everyone's email got switched to Microsoft 365 and you only wanted YOUR email to switch?
Can't confirm non-profit or school account status?
Services not working with your domain?
Accessing your website isn't working?
Can't verify your domain?
There are a couple of common reasons that domain verification doesn't work as it should:
1. The verification record value isn't quite correct. Double-check that you've copied and
pasted the exact value into the TXT verification record at your DNS host. One common issue
is not including the "MS=" part of the record. We need that too!
2. The record hasn't been saved. At some DNS hosts, you have to take an extra step to save
the zone file (where the DNS record is stored) so that it will update across the Internet.
Make sure you've saved your changes so Microsoft 365 can see and verify the record.
3. The record hasn't updated across the Internet. It typically only takes a few minutes for us
to be able to see the new record, but occasionally it can take as long as a few hours.
Outlook isn't working?
If you've set up your MX record and other DNS records correctly for your domain, but mail
doesn't work, let us help you fix your Outlook problems.
Everyone's email got switched to Microsoft 365 and you
only wanted YOUR email to switch?
When you add your domain to Microsoft 365, typically your domain's MX record is updated (by
you or Microsoft 365) to point to Microsoft 365, and ALL email sent to that domain will start
coming to Microsoft 365. Make sure you've created mailboxes in Microsoft 365 for everyone who
has email on your domain BEFORE you change the MX record.
What if you don't want to move email for everyone on your domain to Microsoft 365? You can
take steps to pilot Microsoft 365 with just a few email addresses instead.
Can't confirm non-profit or school account status?

--- Page 606 of 2193 ---
There are a couple of scenarios when you just need to verify your organization's domain and not
set up any services. For example, to prove to Microsoft 365 that your organization qualifies for a
school subscription.
Check out the guidance in Verify your Microsoft 365 domain to prove ownership, nonprofit, or
education status, or to activate Viva Engage to make sure you've completed all the required
steps. It's a little different for each situation.
Services not working with your domain?
We can help you track down issues with your domain's DNS setup. The domains troubleshooter
in Microsoft 365 will show you any records that you need to fix, and exactly what the records
need to be set to.
1. Go to Setup > Domains.
2. View the notifications in the Status column.
3. If you see an issue, select the three dots (more actions), and then select Check health.
4. The pane that opens will describe any issues occurring with your domain.
 Tip
Got your DNS set up correctly, but mail doesn't work in Outlook on your desktop? Check out
the different mail flow scenarios you can have with Microsoft 365 to make sure you've got
things set up correctly for your business. Or get more troubleshooting help with email at Fix
Outlook problems.
Accessing your website isn't working?
If you've fixed any DNS issues and you're still having trouble, try one of the following.
People can't get to your website at contoso.com: Track down website issues
You can't update your A record or CNAME record to point to your website: Update custom
DNS records in Microsoft 365
Related content
Troubleshoot: Audit data on verified domain change (article)
Domains FAQ (article)

--- Page 607 of 2193 ---
Last updated on 04/23/2026

--- Page 608 of 2193 ---
Copilot for admins in Microsoft 365
admin centers
Applies to: ✅ Microsoft 365 Copilot
Copilot for admins uses generative AI to make you more productive by simplifying administration
of Microsoft 365, Microsoft 365 Copilot and agents. It helps you focus on more strategic priorities
and helps you perform administrative tasks across different Microsoft 365 services.
It helps admins perform tasks across different Microsoft 365 services via a single unified surface,
using natural language interactions, contextual guidance, and proactive suggestions.
Before you begin
All users with an admin role can use Copilot for Admins in the M365 admin centers, if the tenant
has at least one paid Copilot license. For more information about admin roles, see About
administrator roles in the Microsoft 365 admin center and Microsoft Entra built-in roles
To use it in Copilot Chat, users need to be a member of an admin role and also have a Copilot
license assigned to that account or have PayGo setup. For more information about Copilot
licensing, see License options for Microsoft 365 Copilot.
Get started
To use Copilot in Microsoft 365 admin centers, follow these steps:
1. Sign in to the Microsoft 365 admin center , or one of the specialized admin centers like
Teams , SharePoint, or Exchange .
2. Select the Copilot button in the upper right shell to launch Copilot in Microsoft 365 admin
centers.

--- Page 609 of 2193 ---
Use Copilot for admins in Microsoft 365 Copilot Chat
1. Sign in to Microsoft 365 Copilot Chat and select Microsoft 365 Admin agent in the left
navigation pane.
2. If you don't find the agent in the left navigation pane, select All agents, search for
Microsoft 365 Admin, and select Add.

--- Page 610 of 2193 ---
3. You can also use the agent in any apps you use such as Word, Excel, and PowerPoint.
Capabilities in Copilot for admins
You can use Copilot to help manage your organization and focus on what's important. Following
section provides an overview of the capabilities available in Copilot for Admins.
ﾉ Expand table
Capability Description
Admin recap Use admin recap to get a personalized and concise summary of key insights and
trends across admin areas, such as Service Health, Message Center, Groups and
more to save valuable time.
Example prompts:
- Recap relevant info from across the admin center

--- Page 611 of 2193 ---
Capability Description
Get admin help and Get support for any challenges or questions related to administering Microsoft
support 365 for your tenant.
Example prompts:
- How do I view Copilot usage across my organization?

--- Page 612 of 2193 ---
Capability Description
- How do I restore a deleted user?
- How do I set up multifactor authentication?
Message Center and Surfaces general status of Microsoft services, tenant health status, health advice,
Service health and recommendations.
Example prompts:
- Show me the health of Teams?

--- Page 613 of 2193 ---
Capability Description
- Are there any service issues right now?
Search for users and Search your users and groups based on natural language queries. Copilot
groups returns a list where you can view the results in active users or group lists and
export them to a CSV file for further analysis.
Example prompts:
- Show me users in Australia with an assigned Teams license?

--- Page 614 of 2193 ---
Capability Description
- Identify all groups in my organization with an owner.
- Show me all the users who are not using Copilot in the last 30 days.
Get relevant licensing Search for specific license details such as assigned licenses, pending license
information and assign requests, available licenses etc. and get detailed answers.
licenses
Coming soon: You can also assign licenses to users within Copilot for admins.
You'll be asked for confirmation before executing the action on your behalf.
Example prompts:
- Show me users without a Copilot license?
- How many Copilot licenses are available?
Search and analyze Search and analyze Teams data using natural language queries. Copilot lets you
Teams insights quickly find users, groups, and policies without complex filters. Results are
displayed in familiar admin views, such as active users or policy lists, and can be
exported to a CSV file for deeper analysis or reporting.
Example prompts:
- Find all users with a Calling Plan license but no phone number assigned.
- Find all users whose name starts with A, who have the Global Messaging Policy
assigned.
- Search and return a list of all policies where the meeting recording is turned
Off.
- Search for all users with no custom meeting policy assigned.
Manage and Manage and troubleshoot Teams policies effortlessly. Copilot helps you
troubleshoot Teams diagnose policy-related issues that impact messaging, meetings, or external
policies collaboration in Teams. Common scenarios include users unable to record
meetings, blocked features, or conflicting policy settings.
Example prompts:
- Why is an external user unable to join a meeting organized by user email or
user principal name?
- Why can't user principal name or Id record meetings?
Troubleshoot Teams Quickly identify and resolve meeting quality issues in Teams. Copilot helps you
meetings investigate poor meeting or call quality by analyzing telemetry and surfacing
likely causes such as network issues, device problems, or bandwidth constraints.

--- Page 615 of 2193 ---
Capability Description
Example prompts:
- Analyze the call quality of for their meeting with Meeting ID. Were there any
quality issues?
- List the most common quality issues in meetings for the last 30 days.
- List all users who experienced quality issues in meeting for last 30 days.
Coming soon: Agents View and manage your Copilot agents within Copilot for admins. You can drill
management down into various details of the agents such as security and compliance and
deploy agents to users in your organization.
Example prompts:
- Show me a list of all available agents and its availability?
- Tell me more about Researcher agent and if there is any risk in enabling it.
Coming soon: Prompt For your administrative tasks such as generating usage reports on a weekly
scheduling for your basis, viewing pending license requests & available licenses etc. you can
frequent tasks schedule prompts to run at a specific cadence so that the prompt automatically
runs, curates the data that you are looking for & notifies you about it.
Policy troubleshooting Troubleshoot scenarios such as a user being able or unable to join or start a
meeting, or bypass the lobby. Address queries related to the functionality of
Teams features, including, Chats, webinars, messages, presenting.
Frequently asked questions
How do I enable Copilot for admins in Microsoft 365
admin centers?
Copilot in admin centers is automatically enabled for all admin users if the tenant has at least one
Copilot license. To use Copilot for admins in Copilot Chat, the user must have a Copilot license
assigned.
How do I disable Copilot for admins?
If you would like to exclude certain admins from this feature, add them to a custom security
group. Create a security group with the following name: CopilotForM365AdminExclude. You don't
need to specify a description or configure other settings. Microsoft 365 admin centers disable the
Copilot experience for any admin users in this group.

--- Page 616 of 2193 ---
If you would like to exclude certain admins from this feature, add them to a custom security
group. Create a security group with the following name: CopilotForM365AdminExclude. You don't
need to specify a description or configure other settings. Microsoft 365 admin centers disable the
Copilot experience for any admin users in this group. Visit this page to enable or disable
Copilot for Admins in admin centers.
Which admin roles can use Copilot for admins?
The feature is available to all admin users. It respects role-based access controls in the admin
center and only shows information and controls that the user has access to. Copilot doesn't make
any configuration changes on your behalf.
Does Copilot for admins support audit logging?
Yes. Copilot in Microsoft 365 admin centers aligns with Microsoft's commitment to providing
enterprise-grade compliance capabilities for all Copilot products. These capabilities include
features such as auditing, eDiscovery, legal hold, and data retention controls.
Yes. It aligns with Microsoft's commitment to providing enterprise-grade compliance capabilities
for all Copilot products. These capabilities include features such as auditing, eDiscovery, legal
hold, and data retention controls.
） Important
To maintain your security and privacy, Copilot doesn't make any configuration changes on
your behalf unless you explicitly provide consent for it. For more information, see Data,
privacy, and security for Microsoft 365 Copilot.
Last updated on 11/26/2025

--- Page 617 of 2193 ---
Agent management in Microsoft 365
admin center
Agents are powerful AI companions that can handle a range of interactions and tasks. An agent
can resolve issues that require complex conversations and autonomously determine the best
action to take based on its instructions and context. It coordinates language models, along with
instructions, context, knowledge sources, articles, tools, inputs, and triggers to accomplish goals
that members of your organization need to accomplish. Your organization can use agents in
multiple languages across websites, mobile apps, Facebook, Microsoft Teams, and any other
supported channel.
Agent governance involves using policies, settings, and admin actions to control how agents at
your organization are accessed, published, deployed, and managed across your organization.
When you apply an agent governance approach to managing agents, you ensure agents and the
data they use remain secure and compliant.
By using governance across your agent lifecycle, you help ensure agent adoption is consistent
and safe. Governance ensures agents onboard intentionally, operate within guardrails, and are
managed consistently from build through retirement.
Organizations face significant challenges related to agent governance, including the following:
How to apply consistent governance policies across all agents, regardless of how or where
they're built.
How to balance developer freedom and experimentation with centralized oversight.
How to identify and retire low value or ownerless agents before they create risk or cost.
By managing agents within Microsoft 365 admin center, organizations can establish these
guardrails for agents and people, onboard agents with IT oversight, and govern agent access to
resources and data, thereby meeting the challenges that organization face. In addition,
organizations track their governance approach with built-in compliance and data retention
details.
The following capabilities help your organization confidently manage and govern your agent's
ecosystem:
Bring agents under control from day one - Onboard and approve agents through one IT
controlled flow, applying policy templates to every agent for governance and compliance.

--- Page 618 of 2193 ---
Control what agents can access and do - Enforce least privilege access by controlling which
users, data, and tools agents can use and limit access to only the resources and other
agents they need.
Automate ongoing agent governance - Leverage rules-based agent management to
automatically enforce lifecycle policies, such as flagging ownerless agents, or blocking risky
agents.
Be audit-ready from the start - Strengthen visibility into how your agents are being used
and how they're performing, helping you ensure they operate securely, comply with
policies, and run reliably across your organization.
Reduce compliance and safety risks - Establish data safety and compliance controls to
detect, retain, and investigate unethical agent interactions.
The Agent workload within Microsoft 365 admin center allows you to view a summary of
agents that you manage, deploy, and monitor at your organization. It provides usage and insights
that help monitor agent adoption and governance. The Agent workload serves as the grounding
control plane for all agents managed at your organization.
The Agent workload will help you accomplish the following tasks:
Discover and review the agents that exist in your organization's tenant
Understand who published and owns each agent
Control availability and access to each agent
Apply agent governance and policy decisions consistently across channels
７ Note
The Microsoft Frontier program gives organizations early access to innovative and emerging
AI capabilities in Microsoft 365 before those features reach general availability (GA). Frontier
previews are subject to the existing preview terms of your customer agreements. For more
information, see Get started with the Microsoft Frontier program.
Prerequisites
Before you can manage agents in the Microsoft 365 admin center, confirm the following
requirements are met:
Your organization has the required Microsoft 365 subscription and licenses for either
Microsoft 365 Copilot or Microsoft Agent 365 capabilities.
Users who create, publish, or use agents have the appropriate licenses assigned.

--- Page 619 of 2193 ---
You’re assigned an administrator role that includes permissions to manage settings for
either Microsoft 365 Copilot or Microsoft Agent 365 in the Microsoft 365 admin center.
For more information, see the following resources:
Plans and licensing for Microsoft Agent 365
License options for Microsoft 365 Copilot
Agent management roles and permissions
View the Agent overview
You can access and view the Agent overview using the following steps:
1. Sign in to the Microsoft 365 admin center .
2. Select Agents > Overview. The Agent overview pane is displayed.
） Important
Certain features are available within Microsoft 365 admin center based on services licensed
in your subscription. To view your licensed subscriptions in the Microsoft 365 admin
center , select Billing > Licenses > Subscriptions. For more information, see Plans and
licensing.
Agent overview summary
Administrators use the Agent overview to identify and act on critical governance tasks required to
maintain compliance, mitigate risk, and ensure agents are properly managed across the
organization. These actions are surfaced through actionable insights in the dashboard and
provide direct pathways to resolve governance gaps.
Using the Agent overview, you can view key agent details for your tenant, including the
following items:
A snapshot of agent activity and actionable insights for the last 30 days
Track agent usage trends
Identify risks and governance gaps
Critical actions for administrators to review, such as:
Approve pending requests
Manage agents without owners

--- Page 620 of 2193 ---
Total agents in your organization
Enable visibility and control across all agents in your tenant
 Tip
A tenant is an instance of Microsoft Entra ID. Your subscription to Copilot or Agent 365 is
hosted by a Microsoft Entra tenant. For more information about creating and understanding
tenants, see Set up a new Microsoft Entra tenant in the Microsoft Entra documentation.

To ensure consistent interpretation across metrics and insights in the Agent overview, the
following definitions clarify what is included in agent counts and reporting on the Overview
dashboard:
Definition of an agent An agent is defined as an AI-powered entity that can perform tasks
or interactions autonomously or semi-autonomously using instructions, context, knowledge
sources, and tools to accomplish user or organizational goals.
Supported agent types and platforms The Agent Overview includes agents built across
supported Microsoft and connected platforms. This includes agents created using platforms
surfaced in the ecosystem such as Copilot Studio and other Microsoft-supported creation
tools, as well as applicable non-Microsoft agents detected through connected platforms.
Specific platforms supported include: Microsoft Copilot Studio, SharePoint, Agent Builder, AI
Foundry, Agents Toolkit, other Microsoft agentic types (such as Researcher), and non-
Microsoft agentic platforms (such as Manus or Genspark).

--- Page 621 of 2193 ---
７ Note
The Agent Overview doesn't show all agent platforms in use, only the top 5 most used,
to fit on the card. To see all agent platforms and associated agents, go to the Registry
tab.
Draft agent visibility Agent counts and metrics primarily reflect agents that are discoverable
within the tenant through governance and registry systems. Visibility of draft or
unpublished agents may vary based on platform integration and governance state.
７ Note
Currently, you can only view draft agents from Copilot Studio. Support for draft agents
from other platforms, such Agent Builder, Foundry, and SharePoint, aren't currently
available.
System and Microsoft-built agents Agent inventory includes Microsoft-built, partner-built,
and custom (line-of-business) agents to provide a comprehensive view of the total agent
footprint in the organization.
Platforms surfaced in Copilot Studio and ecosystem Agent creation platforms represented
in the overview include Microsoft-native tools (such as Copilot Studio, Agent Builder, and
others) along with any external or third-party platforms detected and integrated into the
agent registry.
Data consistency across sources (Registry vs. analytics systems) Metrics in the Agent
overview are derived from multiple underlying systems (such as the Agent Registry and
usage analytics pipelines). Minor variances may occur due to differences in ingestion timing,
update frequency, and system-specific processing. These variances are expected and don't
impact overall directional insights.
View access to the agent Overview doesn't grant permission to install, modify, or manage agents.
Administrative actions continue to be governed by role-based access controls aligned with agent
installation and consent workflows. For more information about roles and permissions, see Agent
management roles and permissions in Microsoft 365 admin center.
Types of agents

--- Page 622 of 2193 ---
Agents that can be managed in Microsoft 365 admin center vary depending on the agent type
and platform. An agent's type and platform is based on the tools and methods used to create the
agent.
The following table describes each type of agent:
ﾉ Expand table
Type of Description
agent
MCS DA A Microsoft Copilot Studio Declarative Agent (MCS DA) is created primarily using written
instructions within Copilot Studio. These agents can be published based on channel and
approved by the administrator within Microsoft 365 admin center.
MCS CEA A Microsoft Copilot Studio Custom Engine Agent (MCS CEA) is designed using more precise
settings and capabilities using Copilot Studio. The agents can be published based on
channel and approved by the administrator within Microsoft 365 admin center.
MCS BP A business process (BP) agent, created with Microsoft Copilot Studio, is a sequence of tasks,
decisions, and interactions often implemented to use automation.
Foundry A Foundry LOB agent is create using Microsoft Foundry. This is a Line-of-Business (LOB)
LOB agent that has been created in-house (within your organization) for a specific business
scenario.
Foundry A Foundry non-LOB agent is created using Microsoft Foundry, however it isn't tied to a
non-LOB specific business workflow.
Foundry A Foundry hosted agent is created, stored, and run inside the Foundry platform.
hosted
Agent An Agent Builder agent is a declarative agent that has been created using Agent Builder
Builder within Copilot.
SharePoint A SharePoint agent is a declarative agent that has been created using SharePoint. This type
of agent typically uses organizational knowledge hosted on SharePoint.
Agent An Agent Toolkit agent has been created using Microsoft 365 Agents Toolkit. The toolkit
Toolkit provides tooling for building, testing, and managing agents across Microsoft 365.
Agent An agent that has been extended using the Microsoft Agent 365 SDK is an agent instance.
instance Once extended, an agent instance has Entra-backed agent identity, enhanced notification
capabilities, extended observability, covered MCP tooling, and an IT-approved template
system.
For more information about agent types, see Data & tools by agent type.
Agent card details

--- Page 623 of 2193 ---
The agents overview provides a dashboard view with cards containing specific information and
status related to agents.
Hero metrics for agent impact
Hero metrics provide a high-level summary of the most critical indicators of agent scale and
engagement.
Agent registry - The total count of all agents available in your organization's catalog,
including Microsoft-built, partner-built, and custom "line-of-business" agents. In both
registry and usage, we refer to these types of agents as "Built by your organization". This
Agent registry reflects the breadth of agents deployed across your tenant. In the Agent
overview, you can select Explore All agents > Registry to view your inventory in detail.
Active users - The number of unique users who interacted with at least one agent up to the
last 30 days by sending a prompt to an agent and receiving a response from that agent.
These conversational interactions can occur in Microsoft experiences, such as Teams and
Microsoft Copilot, as well as non-Microsoft channels. For Microsoft Copilot Studio agents,
an active user is counted when a user sends a prompt to the agent. In most cases, prompts
and responses have a one-to-one relationship. However, there are limited scenarios where a
user may send a prompt but not receive a response. This difference is expected to have a
minimal impact in practice. This definition will evolve in the future as we continue to
improve how usage is measured.
This metric begins when your organization activates Agent 365 licenses. It may reflect
fewer than 30 days of data immediately after activation. As activity accumulates, the
metric will progressively reflect a fuller 30-day view.
Data collection starts at license activation. For related information, see Microsoft 365
Copilot Agents usage report.
Agent run-time - Total hours worked by agents during the last 30 days, calculated from
when a user request begins to when it is completed, and aggregated across all agent
activities, such as executing tool calls and preparing responses.
This metric begins when your organization activates Agent 365 licenses, so it will reflect
fewer than 30 days of data immediately after activation. As activity accumulates, the
metric will progressively reflect a fuller 30-day view.
Registry sync - The external connected platforms that were scanned. You can connect to
external platforms to find and monitor agents used in your organization. Your use of
external non-Microsoft products is subject to the third-party service provider's terms of use.
You're responsible for complying with each provider's terms of use. For more information,
see Registry sync in the Microsoft 365 agent registry.

--- Page 624 of 2193 ---
Top actions for you
Governance actions help administrators enforce policy, maintain accountability, and manage the
agent lifecycle across the tenant. These actions are driven by signals such as pending approvals,
ownership gaps, and identified risks.
Common governance actions include:
Review and approve pending agent requests - Identify agents awaiting administrative
approval and take action to allow or restrict deployment. Selecting Manage requests
navigates to Requests view (All agents > Requests).
Assign ownership to agents without owners - Ensure all agents have a designated owner
responsible for lifecycle management, compliance, and ongoing maintenance.
Investigate and remediate agents at risk - Review agents flagged for potential security or
compliance issues and take corrective action by selecting to manage agent risks in the
Agent Registry.
Review agents with exceptions - Identify agents experiencing errors or issues in operation
and investigate underlying problems through detailed views.
These governance actions are surfaced through the following key views:
Pending Requests for agents
Agents without owners
Agents at risk
Agents with exceptions
Selecting any of these options navigates to filtered views within the Agent Registry, where
administrators can take corrective action.
） Important
Important governance actions such as approving agent requests or assigning ownership can
only be performed by users in the AI Administrator or Global Administrator roles. Other
roles can monitor governance gaps but can't take administrative action.
View actionable governance cards that display urgent tasks for you (the administrator) to
maintain compliance. These cards help you quickly identify and resolve governance gaps.
Pending Requests for Agents - See the total number of agent requests awaiting admin
approvals. The card lists three pending requests, prioritized by newest first. To take

--- Page 625 of 2193 ---
immediate action, select Manage requests. This selection navigates to the Agent Registry >
Requests tab. This tab lists all pending agent requests submitted by users within your
organization.
Agents at risk - View the total number of agents with security risks. These are aggregated
high severity risks across Microsoft security platforms such as Microsoft Entra, Microsoft
Defender, and Microsoft Purview. It closes a critical visibility gap for IT administrators
responsible for governing AI agents. Select Manage agent risks to view agents filter by risk
in the Agent Registry.
Agents without owners - View the total number of agents without an assigned owner and
still pending owner assignment. Select Assign Owner to view a list of agents filtered by
Agents without owners.
Agent with exceptions - View the total number of agents with errors in their conversations.
Select View details to view a list of agents filtered by agents with errors.
This metric begins when your organization activates Agent 365 licenses. It will reflect
fewer than 30 days of data immediately after activation. As activity accumulates, the
metric will progressively reflect a fuller 30-day view.
Agent analytics
Get detailed insights into how agents are distributed and used. This information helps
administrators understand if a specific platform is being used, and if an agent is spiking in usage,
to assure it's compliant and managed, so as to mitigate risk.
Agents by creators - View a breakdown of all agents in your inventory by their source of
publisher type, such as who created and shared the agent. There are three categories:
Your organization - Agents that your organization created and published. These agents
can be shared by the creator or used only by the creator. This group also contains counts
for "your users", which are agents created by members of your organization. These
agents can be shared by those members of your organization, or used only by them.
Third Party - Agents created by external partners.
Microsoft - Agent created by Microsoft.
Top platforms used to build agents - See which creation platforms are most used for
building agents. The following MSFT platforms are covered in Agent 365 (A365):
Microsoft 365 Copilot Agent Builder (including Teams and Copilot Studio Legacy Agents)
Copilot Studio
Agents Toolkit
SharePoint

--- Page 626 of 2193 ---
Microsoft Foundry - NOTE: Currently, analytics only support Microsoft Foundry V2
agents.
Other - NOTE: Other is used to indicate an unknown platform. Other also includes
Microsoft, External, and LOB agents when the metadata field for Platforms is blank for
those agents.
Non-Microsoft platforms will also display in this card if there are non-Microsoft agents in
your registry.
７ Note
New agent platforms will be regularly be added, thus this list will continue to grow.
Active users over time - View a trend chart that shows daily active user engagement with
agents over the last 30 days. This chart reveals usage momentum and helps you spot spikes
or declines.
This metric begins when your organization activates Agent 365 licenses, so it will reflect
fewer than 30 days of data immediately after activation. As activity accumulates, the
metric will progressively reflect a fuller 30-day view.
Trending agents by active users - You can view the agents with the most active users in
your organization over the last 30 days.
This metric begins when your organization activates Agent 365 licenses, so it will reflect
fewer than 30 days of data immediately after activation. As activity accumulates, the
metric will progressively reflect a fuller 30-day view.
Last updated on 05/26/2026

--- Page 627 of 2193 ---
Agent management roles and permissions in
Microsoft 365 admin center
Access to agent management in Microsoft 365 admin center is controlled by Microsoft Entra
admin roles.
While several administrative and security roles can view agent-related information for monitoring
and reporting purposes, only select roles are authorized to perform governance actions such as
approving agent requests or assigning ownership.
The following table provides agent management capabilities in the Microsoft 365 admin center:
ﾉ Expand table
Role View insights and View agent registry Install, modify, approve, and
organization data information manage agent configurations
Global Administrator ✔ ✔ ✔
AI Administrator ✔ ✔ ✔
Global Reader ✔ ✔ ✖
AI Reader ✔ ✔ ✖
Security ✔ ✔ ✖
Administrator
Security Reader ✔ ✔ ✖
Security Operator ✔ ✔ ✖
Reports Reader ✔ ✔ ✖
User Experience ✔ ✔ ✖
Success Manager
User Account ✔ ✖ ✖
Administrator
The AI Administrator and Global Administrator roles have tenant-wide visibility and governance
authority, where-as by contrast, product-specific admin roles allow governance only within the
boundaries of their products (such as Power Platform Administrator and Fabric Administrator).

--- Page 628 of 2193 ---
） Important
Use and assign roles with the fewest permissions to accomplish tasks. Accounts with lower
permission roles help improve security for your organization. Global Administrator is a
highly privileged role. Limit its use to emergency scenarios when you can't use an existing
role. For more information, see About admin roles in the Microsoft 365 admin center.
For more information about roles and permissions related to agents, see About administrator
roles in the Microsoft 365 admin center.
Last updated on 05/06/2026

--- Page 629 of 2193 ---
Manage agent registry in Microsoft 365
admin center
The agent registry in Microsoft 365 admin center provides a centralized view of all agents
available for your organization. This list helps you monitor, manage, and govern agents for your
organization.
View agent registry
1. Sign in to the Microsoft 365 admin center .
2. In the left navigation pane, select Agents > All Agents > Registry.

Agent types
The agent Registry lists all agents that are available to your organization. Agents are divided into
four main types, as shown in the following table:
ﾉ Expand table
Agent type Description
Microsoft agents Agents built and maintained by Microsoft.
External partner- Agents built by trusted non-Microsoft developers and published for broader or

--- Page 630 of 2193 ---
Agent type Description
built agents public availability.
Published by your Custom agents approved and published by your organization for broader use. These
org agents might be referred to as LOB (Line of Business) agents.
Shared by creator Agents created and shared by individual users or developers at your organization.
These agents are commonly referred to as Shared agents.
Agent registry summary
The agent Registry provides quick details about the agents your organization has available, as
shown in the following table:
ﾉ Expand table
Tenant-wide agent Description
details
Total agents The number of agents available in your organization's tenant.
Agents without The number of agents that no longer have owners at your organization.
owners
Unmanaged agents The number of agents created or managed outside of Agent 365, without its risk
protection and observability.
Agent registry filters
The agent Registry can contain a large and diverse inventory of agents. As your organization's
agent adoption increases, management of all your agents can be more involved and complex. In
addition to sorting the list of agents by column, you can filter the list. Filtering this list helps you
narrow the view to the agents that you want to focus on at the moment that allows you to:
Be more efficient.
Make focused decisions.
Better apply your agent governance processes.
You can filter the agent list based on the following criteria:
Status - You can filter the agent list based on status of the agent.
Publisher Type - The publisher filter indicates who owns and distributes the agent, rather
than where or how it was built. This filter is primarily used to distinguish between Microsoft

--- Page 631 of 2193 ---
agents, external partner-built agents, and internally owned agents published by your
organization.
Channel - The channel filter is the location where the agent is deployed. It's the surface
through which members of your organization can discover and interact with the agent.
Channel values include Copilot, Teams, Outlook, Microsoft 365 apps, and SharePoint.
Platform - The platform filter indicates which platform or product was used to create the
agent.
Data source - The data source filter allows you to select Embedded knowledge and Fine-
tuned models as data source options. Embedded knowledge refers to agents that include
files that were uploaded by the agent maker or developer as knowledge sources. Fine-
tuned models indicates that the agent was created using Microsoft 365 Copilot Tuning,
allowing the agent to tune LLMs with their own organization data.
 Tip
If you don't see the agents that you expect to see in the agent registry list, check to make
sure you don't have an existing filter set.
Certain columns allow you to sort the agent registry list. To sort the list, select the column
title.
Agent registry actions
The agent Registry provides agent actions that relate specifically to your tenant's list of agents, as
shown in the following table:
ﾉ Expand table
Action Description
Refresh Updates the list to provide the most current view of the agent list.
Export Exports agents to a CSV file. This action could take some time depending on the number of
agents in the tenant. For more information, see Export to Excel.
Add agent Provides a method to upload an agent manifest file (.zip). For more information, see Upload
custom agent.
Manage Select which agents are pinned for the user. Pinned agents are more prominently displayed
pinned in each available channel where the agent is deployed. You can change the priority of
agents pinned agents by moving them up and down in this list. If a user has more than three

--- Page 632 of 2193 ---
Action Description
pinned agents, users don't see agents with lower priority. For more information, see
Managed pinned agents.
Customize Customize how the columns that are displayed in the agent list. For more information, see
view Custom view.
Search Use the search option to quickly find an agent in your agent Registry.
 Tip
In addition to the above actions, you can change the view of the list from Normal list to
Compact list by selecting the list icon next to the Search box.
Agents without owners
Shared agents can become ownerless when you delete the user who created them from the
organization.
To help administrators manage these scenarios, the Microsoft 365 admin center enables you to
identify and manage ownerless shared agents. The dashboard displays the total count of such
agents, a one-click filter to quickly isolate them, and real-time updates that reflect user deletions.
When administrators use these features, they can efficiently review and address ownership gaps
by blocking or deleting affected agents.


--- Page 633 of 2193 ---
When you select the Agents without owners card, the agent list will be filtered to show the
agents based on Publisher type and Owner. You can review the list of agents without owners and
take appropriate actions for each agent, such as blocking or deleting the agent.
Key features
Ownerless agent count - Administrators can view the total number of agents without a
valid owner directly from the dashboard. For example, the dashboard shows 20 ownerless
agents, which indicates that users who left the organization created these agents.
One-click filter - Selecting the dashboard pane instantly filters the agent list to display only
shared agents missing an owner. This feature allows for quick triage and action.
Real-time updates - The ownerless agent count automatically updates when you hard
delete a user from the organization. This feature ensures that the dashboard reflects the
current state without requiring manual refreshes.
Agents at risk
The Agents at risk card on the Microsoft 365 admin center Overview page provides
administrators with a tenant-level summary of agents that are identified with high-severity risks
across Microsoft security platforms including:
Microsoft Entra
Microsoft Purview
Microsoft Defender


--- Page 634 of 2193 ---
The Agents at risk card offers immediate visibility into the agents with the highest aggregated
risks in the organization by surfacing the top three most at-risk agents, enabling administrators
to quickly prioritize investigation and response efforts.
Selecting View agents from the card takes administrators directly to the All agents > Registry
page, where agents are prefiltered and sorted based on risk level. This filtering allows for
streamlined investigation and remediation workflows without requiring manual filtering across
the full agent inventory.
Agent risk types
The following table provides agent risk types based on risk severity.
ﾉ Expand table
Risk type Risk Risk signal Risk trigger Resources
severity source
Shadow agent Critical Microsoft Entra, Agent has no registry Shadow AI in Microsoft
Microsoft 365 entry, no owner, or no 365 admin center
admin center Microsoft Entra Agent
ID
No owner assigned Critical Microsoft Entra, Agent has no owner or Assign new owner to an
Microsoft 365 sponsor on record agent
admin center
Excessive permissions Critical Microsoft Entra, Agent's access rights Agent permissions
Microsoft exceed declared
Defender function (least-privilege
violation)
Security High Microsoft Agent exploitable Microsoft Security
misconfiguration Defender attack path detected via Exposure Management
Security Exposure
Management
Prompt injection High Microsoft AI Prompt Shield flags Protect enterprise
Defender, or blocks injection generative AI
Microsoft Entra attempt at runtime applications with
Security Service prompt injection
Microsoft Edge protection
(SSE)
Sensitive data access High Microsoft Labeled data accessed Learn about data loss
Purview without a matching DLP prevention
policy exception

--- Page 635 of 2193 ---
Risk type Risk Risk signal Risk trigger Resources
severity source
Conditional access High Microsoft Entra Access attempted Microsoft Entra
violation outside defined Conditional Access
conditions (location, policies
device, risk score)
Pending approval Medium Microsoft 365 Agent may be running Microsoft Entra access
admin center before IT governance reviews
review completes
Operational Medium Microsoft 365 Errors or failures in Use developer mode in
exceptions admin center agent conversation or Microsoft 365 Copilot to
tool execution test and debug agents
Compliance/retention Medium Microsoft Agent interactions Data lifecycle and
gap Purview missing required audit records management in
trail or retention policy Microsoft Purview
Risks column in the Agent Registry
） Important
This feature is available within Microsoft 365 admin center based on licensed subscription.
To view your licensed subscriptions in the Microsoft 365 admin center , select Billing >
Licenses > Subscriptions. For more information, see Plans and licensing.
The Risks column on the Microsoft 365 admin center All agents page provides a unified view of
aggregated high severity risks across Microsoft security platforms such as Microsoft Entra,
Microsoft Defender, and Purview. It closes a critical visibility gap for IT administrators responsible
for governing AI agents.

--- Page 636 of 2193 ---

When you select the risk count for an agent from the Risks column in the Agent Registry list, you
are taken directly to the Security tab within the agent's flyout details pane. This flyout provides a
focused and actionable view of the total aggregated risk counts across all supported detection
platforms for the selected agent. From this view, you can further investigate risks and take
mitigation actions, such as using the Block option to prevent the agent from operating if
necessary. Additionally, the Enabled policies and protection sections display the default security
protections applied to the agent by Microsoft Entra and Microsoft Purview.

--- Page 637 of 2193 ---

If the agent has multiple instances associated with it, the flyout initially displays a breakdown of
aggregated risks by instance. From here, the admin can proceed to view the total aggregated risk
counts across all detection platforms for the selected agent.

--- Page 638 of 2193 ---

To support further investigation, admins can select the Review link. The Review link redirects to
the respective security portals where further action can be taken.
７ Note
After selecting the Review link for Purview risks, you're taken to Purview. If you're presented
with the Welcome to the new Microsoft Purview portal! message window, make sure to
select the Get started button to see the relevant security alerts. If this message window is
instead closed or the option Go to classic portal is selected instead of the Get started
button, you might not see the relevant security alerts.
） Important

--- Page 639 of 2193 ---
The Risks column only shows high severity risks flagged by the respective platforms.
Zero risks is an indication that there are no high risks presently for the agent. However,
there could be other types of risks, such as low or medium, in the respective security
platforms.
There might be a delay of up to an hour for the risks count in the Microsoft 365 admin
center when compared to what is shown in the security portals.
Agents at risk tile
The Agents at risk tile on the All agents page displays the total number of agents in the tenant
that have one or more high-severity risks. Selecting the tile opens a prefiltered view that shows
only agents with detected risks, allowing you to prioritize investigation and remediation.

Role-based access for the Review link
The following table shows what each role can access when they select the Review link:
ﾉ Expand table

--- Page 640 of 2193 ---
Role Can access & investigate Can access & Can access & investigate
risks in Defender investigate risks in risks in Microsoft Entra
Purview
AI Admin No No Partial
Reports Reader No No No
User Experience No No No
Success Manager
Security Reader Yes No Yes
Security Administrator Yes No Yes
AI Reader No No No
Global Reader Yes No Yes
） Important
To access Purview alerts, users must be assigned to one of the following Insider Risk
Management (IRM) roles within Purview:
Insider Risk Management Analysts
Insider Risk Management Investigators
These roles are required to sign in to Purview to view Insider Risk Management alerts. For
more information, see Assign permissions in Insider Risk Management.
Upload custom agent
The agent Registry within Microsoft 365 admin center provides a method to upload a custom
agent, so that you can manage those agents for your organization.
７ Note
You can also update an existing agent in Agent Store. For more information, see View agent
details.
To upload an agent, the agent must be contained in a ZIP packet file. The ZIP file contains
resources, such as manifest files, configuration files, icons, branding, and embedded knowledge
files.

--- Page 641 of 2193 ---
７ Note
Your agent ZIP file can be downloaded from Copilot Studio or from Agent Builder in Copilot.
To download your agent ZIP file from Copilot Studio, select Agents > the name of your agent
> Channels. Select the channel you use to publish, such as Teams and Microsoft 365
Copilot. Select Availability options > Download .zip.
To download your declarative agent ZIP file from Agent Builder in Copilot, select All agents
> select the ellipses next to your agent > Edit > select the ellipses on the right > Download
.zip file.
To upload an agent as a ZIP packet file to the Microsoft 365 admin center:
1. In Microsoft 365 admin center , select Agents > All agents > Add agent.
2. Select Choose file to find and select the agent ZIP file. The ZIP file is validated. Then, select
Next.
3. Verify the agent's name, icon, and host products.
4. Under Publish, select the users or groups who can install the agent.

5. Under Deploy (optional), select the users or groups who will have the agent preinstalled.
Then, select Next.
７ Note

--- Page 642 of 2193 ---
You can select a small audience for testing purposes. For instance, select Just me, or a
single test group to narrow the availability of the agent.
6. Choose to apply either an existing policy template, a custom policy, or the default policy.
For more existing policy template information, see Security templates. Agent 365 users can
apply selected custom policies and protections. Default policies and protections are
managed through their security platform. Check the status of each in the platform. Note
policies and protections might not be enabled. Then, select Next.

7. Review agent permissions. Then, select Next.
8. Review and finished. Select Finish deployment.
Manage pinned agents
As an administrator, you can choose to pin a deployed agent to the Agents list within Microsoft
365 Copilot. By pinning agents in Microsoft 365 Copilot, you can ensure that those agents are
visible and accessible for all members of your organization, or only specific users or groups. You
can choose to pin and unpin agents. Also, you can rank the list of pinned agents.
Microsoft 365 Copilot includes agents pinned by Microsoft, admins, and users. Microsoft pinned
agents are specific agents that are pinned by default for all users. You can pin agents for your

--- Page 643 of 2193 ---
organization within Microsoft 365 admin center. In addition, individual users can pin agents in
their own Microsoft 365 Copilot Chat or Microsoft 365 Copilot experience.
７ Note
After you pin an agent, it might take up to six hours for end-users to see the agent pinned.
This section explains how administrators can pin, unpin, or manage agents for everyone or
specific groups by using the Microsoft 365 admin center. It also covers related actions like
ranking the list of pinned agents and editing the scope of pinned agents.
Pinning agents is a feature that enables administrators to preselect and pin agents for end-users
by using Microsoft 365 Copilot. The administrator pins the agent to ensure that the agent
automatically appears in the end user's Copilot interface without requiring any user action. The
agent is now readily accessible to the user in the Copilot interface.
Prerequisites
To pin agents so that each agent is more visible and accessible to members of your organization,
there are prerequisites for your users (members of your organization). Additionally, you must
have specific permissions and role.
For end users - Members of your organization must have access to the following:
Microsoft 365 work account
Access to Microsoft 365 Copilot Chat (for example, via Teams, web, or the Microsoft 365
Copilot app)
The agent to pin must be discoverable by the member of your organization
For administrators - You, as the administrator, must have the following role and access:
AI Administrator
Access to the Microsoft 365 admin center
(Optional) Power Platform admin center access (if you use Pay-as-you-go for agents)
Pinned agents

--- Page 644 of 2193 ---

Microsoft-pinned agents
These agents are agents that Microsoft pins by default for all users.
Ensures essential or high-value agents, like core Copilot features, are always visible.
End users can't unpin these agents. They're fixed in the pinned list.
Administrator-pinned agents
Pinned by your organization's administrator through the Microsoft 365 admin center.
Can be pinned for:
All users.
Specific groups.
Specific users.
End users usually can't unpin these agents. They're fixed in the pinned list.
User-pinned agents
Pinned by individual users in their own Microsoft 365 Copilot Chat experience.
Users can:

--- Page 645 of 2193 ---
Pin agents they frequently use.
Unpin them anytime.
This list is fully under the user's control, except for Microsoft-pinned or administrator-
pinned agents, which remain locked.
Features
Administrator-pinned agents appear by default for end-users, making them easier to
discover and helping highlight new or important agents.
Administrators can view the Microsoft-pinned agents in Microsoft 365 admin center.
Administrators can pin up to three agents in Microsoft 365 admin center for end-users
using Microsoft 365 Copilot in the organization.
Administrators can choose to pin an agent for all users in the tenant or for specific users or
groups. For example:
Pin Sales Coach agent only for the sales department.
Pin HR Q&A agent for all users.
The end-user can't unpin the Administrator-pinned and Microsoft-pinned agents.
Pin agents
You can select to pin agents using the following steps:
1. In the All agents page, select the ellipse on the right to display a dropdown menu.
2. Select the Manage pinned agents. In the Pinned agents pane, agents Pinned by your org
and agents Pinned by Microsoft lists are displayed.
3. Select Pin agent to pin a new agent.
4. In the Select an agent to pin pane, find the agent you want to pin from the list of agents.
You can search the list to find a specific agent by name. You can only pin agents that are
deployed to some or all users.

--- Page 646 of 2193 ---

5. When you find the desired agent, select it and then select Next.
6. In the Choose who will have this agent pinned pane, choose the scope for the agent that
you want to pin.

--- Page 647 of 2193 ---
All users the agent is deployed to - Pin the agent for all users that the agent is
deployed to in the tenant.
７ Note
If you don't see this option, the selected agent probably isn't deployed.
Specific users or groups the agent is deployed to - Pin for one or more groups or
individual accounts.

7. If you select Specific users or groups the agent is deployed to, select the specific users or
groups to pin the agent.

--- Page 648 of 2193 ---

8. Select Save.
9. After you save the configuration, the system records which agent is pinned for the selected
audience.

--- Page 649 of 2193 ---

Agents that can be pinned
You can only pin deployed agents. If the agent isn't deployed, you see a banner with a message
to first deploy the agent.

--- Page 650 of 2193 ---

If the agent is blocked, unblock the agent before you pin it.

Rank the list of pinned agents
The administrator has three slots reserved for the pinned agents for each user.

--- Page 651 of 2193 ---
The administrator can use the Move up and Move down buttons to reorder the list of
pinned agents by priority to control what is shown to the user.
Unpin an agent
From the list of pinned agents, find the agent that you want to unpin and select Unpin. When
you remove the pin, the agent is no longer available under the Pinned by your org section.
Edit the pinning scope of an agent
Select the agent and choose Edit users to modify the scope of users for which an agent is pinned.

Alternate entry point for pinning

--- Page 652 of 2193 ---
You can also pin an agent from the agent details pane. Select the pin for the user icon. The icon is
only enabled if the agent is deployed.

Customize view
The agent list provided on the All agents page can be customized. You can choose which
columns to display.

--- Page 653 of 2193 ---

Microsoft Graph API for Agent Registry and Agent
Details (preview)
You can also access Agent Registry data programmatically through Microsoft Graph APIs, which
gives you scalable and programmatic control over agent management. By using the new

--- Page 654 of 2193 ---
Microsoft Graph API endpoints, now in preview, administrators can integrate the following tasks
into existing workflows across agents in Microsoft 365:
Automate bulk agent management.
Streamline onboarding.
Integrate governance.
Beyond manual UX-driven agent management, the Microsoft Graph API helps you accelerate
agent management, maintain security and compliance, and ensure agents are available to the
right users at the right time.
Get all agents in your inventory - By using the GET packages API, administrators can
retrieve a comprehensive list of all agents in their tenant to support compliance and
reporting needs.
Get details of a particular agent in your inventory - The GET package details API provides
rich metadata and details for any agent, making it easier to audit, manage, and optimize
agent management.
The API works with the AI Admin Role.
For more information, see Agent and app Package Management API overview (preview).
Export to Excel
Export the list of shared agents to an Excel file. You can set the scope of the exported list to be All
agents or only the currently Filtered agents. This feature is essential for detailed analysis and
reporting.
７ Note
If the export process reaches one minute, the exported file includes only the data up to that
point.
The exported file includes comprehensive information about each shared agent, such as:
Name
Status
Channel
Date created

--- Page 655 of 2193 ---
Last Modified
Publisher
Publisher Type
Version
Owner
Description
Platform
Instructions
 Tip
There are over 30 different items for each agent that can be included in the exported list.
With this information, you can efficiently manage and review the shared agents within your
organization, ensuring compliance and optimizing resource allocation.
Last updated on 05/19/2026

--- Page 656 of 2193 ---
Use Agent Map in the Microsoft 365
admin center
） Important
This feature is available within Microsoft 365 admin center based on licensed subscription.
To view your licensed subscriptions in the Microsoft 365 admin center , select Billing >
Licenses > Subscriptions. For more information, see Plans and licensing.
Agent Map in the Microsoft 365 admin center gives IT and AI admins a visual way to understand
and manage the agents running in their tenant. Instead of relying only on list-based views, Agent
Map groups agents by the platform they were created on, making it easier to interpret large
agent estates and spot adoption patterns at a glance.
Use Agent Map to explore your organization's agent landscape, filter to specific subsets (such as
ownerless agents), and drill into individual agents to review key details like ownership,
configuration, and activity. You can also view how agents relate to each other, helping you
understand dependencies and interactions as your agent footprint grows.

--- Page 657 of 2193 ---

You can use the Agent Map to address what needs your attention, rather than agent inventory
details. Use the Agent Map accomplish the following actions:
Spot patterns fast by identifying clusters of agents across your tenant.
Slice the map with built-in filters to focus on the agents that matter right now. Filter by
Status, Publisher type, Platform, Channel, Data source, or Usage.
７ Note
Usage is supported via Agent365 observability data for tenants with below 4,000
agents.
Track key signals at a glance with high-level metrics and agent-level indicators.
Drill into any agent to review important details such as publisher, type, platform, version,
and connectivity.

--- Page 658 of 2193 ---
The Map complements the Registry by offering a more visual and scalable solution for
environments with large numbers of agents.
View Agent Map
Use the following steps to view the Agent Map:
1. Sign in to the Microsoft 365 admin center .
2. In the left navigation pane, select Agents > All Agents > Map.
When you select the Map tab, the map loads agents from your tenant and displays them as icons
grouped by platform and other metrics.
Agent Map is available to all Microsoft 365 Copilot administrators with an E7 (Agent 365) license.
To access the Agent Map, your role must be either a Global Administrator or an AI
Administrator. For more information about agent management roles, see Agent management
roles and permissions.
Agent Map clusters
By default, Agent Map clusters agents by the platform or by the builder the group of agents were
created by. Each cluster appears as its own group on the map, so you can quickly view how
agents are distributed across your environment.
ﾉ Expand table
Cluster What agents appear here
Microsoft 365 Copilot Agent Agents built using the Microsoft 365 Copilot Agent Builder tool
Builder
Copilot Studio Agents built using Microsoft Copilot Studio
Copilot Studio Legacy Agents built using an earlier version of Copilot Studio
Microsoft 365 Agents Toolkit Agents built using the Microsoft 365 Agents Toolkit (formerly Teams
Toolkit)
SharePoint Agents built using SharePoint
Azure AI Foundry Agents built using Azure AI Foundry
Amazon Bedrock Agents built using Amazon Bedrock
Google Vertex AI Agents built using Google Vertex AI

--- Page 659 of 2193 ---
Cluster What agents appear here
Microsoft First-party agents built and maintained by Microsoft
External Partners Third-party agents from external publishers not associated with a
known builder
Others Any agents that don't match a known platform or publisher
Agent Map summary
The Agent Map provides summary details about the agents your organization has available.
These summary details are provided as cards and can be selected to provide a mutual exclusive
summary. However, the dropdown filter selections, below the cards, can be combined
independently. The following table describes each card:
ﾉ Expand table
Tenant-wide agent Description
details
Total agents The number of agents available in your organization's tenant that can be
activated, used, or shared.
Agents at risk The number of agents with at least one high security risk detected through your
security platforms.
Agents without The number of agents that no longer have owners at your organization.
owners
Unmanaged agents The number of agents created or managed outside of Agent 365, without its risk
protection and observability.
Agent map filtering and search
You can find specific agents quickly by name, using the search bar at the top of Agent Map. You
can also refine what you're looking at with filters that reshape the map around what matters.
The following table provides filter details:
ﾉ Expand table

--- Page 660 of 2193 ---
Filter Filters Description
group
Status Available Narrows the view by how widely an agent is currently available
Blocked in your tenant. This view can show a limited rollout to a fully
Draft blocked or unavailable view.
Not activated
Publisher Your org Lets you slice the map by who published or distributed the
type Your users agent, allowing you to separate first-party, third-party, and
Microsoft internally produced agents (including creator-shared agents).
Third party
Platform Copilot Studio Groups agents by the platform they were built on to help you
Agent Builder in understand build provenance, tooling trends, and governance
Microsoft 365 Copilot coverage across your estate.
Microsoft Foundry
SharePoint
Microsoft 365 Agents
Toolkit
Amazon Bedrock
Other
Channel Copilot Filters agents by where users encounter them, so you can
Outlook investigate exposure and adoption by host product.
Teams
Microsoft 365 apps
SharePoint
Usage Active users: Top 100 by Highlights agents by recent usage and reliability signals so you
users, Inactive can prioritize high-impact agents, find unused ones, and spot
agents that may need attention.
Total sessions: Top 100 by
sessions, No sessions
Exception rate: Has
exceptions (>0%), No
exceptions
Assisted hours: Has assisted
hours, No assisted hours
Security alerts
７ Note

--- Page 661 of 2193 ---
For performance reasons, the Usage/Observability filters are currently available only for
tenants with fewer than 4,000 users. Usage is based on agents reporting activity via Agent
365.
Export agents
You can export the full list of agents displayed in the Agent Map to an Excel file. Select Export to
download agent details for reporting, auditing, or compliance purposes.
Agent Map features
The Agent Map provides controls to help you navigate the map.
Zoom In/Out: Adjust the map view for closer inspection or broader visualization.
Keyboard shortcuts: Provides a key to Keyboard shortcuts. You can select this option to see
navigation, zoom, selection and general keyboard shortcuts.
Settings: Provides a slider to control the Max agents per platform in the Agent Map.
Agent details
When you select an icon for a specific agent, you can see more details about the agent, including:
Details:
Description
Publisher
Agent type
Platform
Last updated
Version
Users
Data and tools
Security
Activity
For more information about agent details, see Understand agent details in Microsoft 365 admin
center.
Agent actions

--- Page 662 of 2193 ---
From the Agent Map, you can take administrative actions directly on agents without leaving the
map view. When you select an agent, the details pane opens and provides available actions
based on the agent's current state.
Available actions are based on the state of the agent. Actions can include the following:
Assign new owner - Assign an owner to an agent that currently has no active owner. You
can only assign ownership to users with a Copilot license.
Block - Blocks the agent from members of your organization. They won't be able to install
or use the agent. Additionally, the agent will be removed from any member of your
organization who has already installed it.
Unblock - Restore access to a previously blocked agent.
Install - Deploys and installs the agent to the selected users.
Pin for users - The agent will be pinned in the UI (based on channel) where the agent was
deployed, so that the agent can be found more easily. Based on the users or groups where
the agent was deployed, you can specify who will have the agent pinned.
These actions are reflected in both the Agent Map and the Registry tab. For a full list of available
admin actions, see Governance and Lifecycle actions for agents available in Microsoft 365 admin
center.
Last updated on 05/14/2026

--- Page 663 of 2193 ---
Manage agent requests in Microsoft 365
admin center
When a member of your organization publishes an agent to your tenant, the agent requires
administrator approval before becoming available tenant-wide. Administrators can review the
agent's details, such as the description, owner, data, and tools, and then publish or reject it. On
publishing, administrators can also scope its audience to specific users or groups, or everyone,
ensuring a controlled rollout.
The Requests list of agents provides a view of agents that require your review and action.
Members of your organization can request specific agents that need your review before an agent
can be made available. For example, agents that have been created by members of your
organization using Copilot Studio or Foundry or Microsoft 365 Agents Toolkit can be submitted
for admin approval. When an agent is submitted for admin approval, all metadata about an
agent's definition is provided in Microsoft 365 admin center. From the Requests list, you can
select the agent to see the details about the agent to better understand the agent's capabilities,
data sources, and custom actions before allowing the agent to be published to your organization.

--- Page 664 of 2193 ---

Agent registry filters
The agent Requests view can contain a large list of agents that need your approval. You can filter
the agent Requests list based on the following criteria:
State - The state of the request, such as Pending activate, Pending review, or Pending
update.
Channel - The channel filter is the location where the agent will be deployed. It's the surface
through which members of your organization can discover and interact with the agent.
Channel values include Teams, Copilot, Office, Outlook, Word, Excel, or PowerPoint.
 Tip
If you don't see the agents that you expect to see in the agent registry list, check to make
sure you don't have an existing filter set.

--- Page 665 of 2193 ---
The streamlined approval workflow makes it faster and easier for administrators to review,
approve, and manage custom agents in the Microsoft 365 admin center.
There are three kinds of requests that show up under the Requests tab:
Pending review
Pending update
Pending activate
Actions for requested agents
There are two primary actions that you can select for an agent that has been requested:
Publish to store - When you're ready to publish a requested agent, you can select this
action to start the agent publishing wizard. The wizard allows you to select users, protection
policies, and any required permissions.
Reject submission - After you've reviewed a requested agent's details, you can select this
action if you don't want to make the agent available to your organization.
Requested agents pending review
When an agent is submitted for admin approval, all metadata about an agent's definition is
provided in Microsoft 365 admin center. Select the available tab to confirm the agent's
capabilities, data sources, and custom actions before allowing the agent to be published to your
organization.
Use the following steps to view pending agent requests and act on those requests:
1. Sign in to the Microsoft 365 admin center .
2. Select Agents > All agents > Requests.
3. Select the requested agent and view the agent's details.
Confirm the capabilities, data sources, security and permissions, and custom actions that the
agent can invoke.
4. When you're ready, select Publish to store within the agent details pane to view the agent
publishing wizard. The publishing wizard steps you through the process of selecting users,
applying a policy template, and accepting permissions.
5. Select the users or groups that can install the agent. Publishing makes the agent available
for installation to the selected audience.
6. (Optional) Select the users or groups who will have the agent preinstalled.
7. Select Next to view template options.

--- Page 666 of 2193 ---
8. Choose a policy template that applies to the agent.
9. Select to apply either an existing template, the default template, or a custom template.
10. Select Next to review permissions.
11. In the Review permissions step, view the permissions requested by the agent and grant
admin consent if appropriate. Permissions allow the agent to access relevant data or
perform actions on behalf of users. For more information, see Agent permissions.
12. Select Next to complete the process.
13. Once you have reviewed the agent details, select Publish.
For more information about publishing requested agents, see Publish agents.
Requested agents pending update
When developers publish an update to an existing agent, the update appears in the Pending
approval list with the status Update pending. Until the update is approved, the previous version
of the agent remains available to users.
Use the following steps to view pending agent requests and act on those requests:
1. Sign in to the Microsoft 365 admin center .
2. Select Agents > All agents > Requests.
3. Select the agent with the state of Pending update and view the agent's details.
4. When ready, select Update in store.
Requested agents pending activate
When a member of your organization requests to activate an agent so that they can create agent
instances, the process requires your approval before they can create instances. Administrators
can review the agent's details, such as the description, owner, data, and tools, and then approve
the request and activate or reject it. When an administrator activates an agent, they can also
scope its audience, such as specific users, groups, or everyone, ensuring a controlled rollout.
The Microsoft 365 admin center activation process for agents ensures governance, security, and
quality of custom applications.
For more information about activating requested agents, see Activate agents.
Reject agents

--- Page 667 of 2193 ---
As an alternative, within the Requests list, you can select the ellipses to the right of the agent
name, then Reject submission when you don't want to publish the agent.
For more information about rejecting requested agents, see Reject agents.
Last updated on 05/06/2026

--- Page 668 of 2193 ---
Understand agent details in Microsoft 365
admin center
You can view and manage agent details for each agent listed in the agent registry within
Microsoft 365 admin center . When you select an agent from the list, you can view these details
in a fly-out pane. The Details pane provides information and actions, as well as additional
information provided within tabs. Each tab provides capabilities and details specifically for the
selected agent. Many of the tabs are standard to all agents, but some tabs are provided based on
an agent's capabilities. For example, if an agent is designed to provide information and answers
from other agents, the Connected Agents tab is provided. In addition to providing information
about an agent in the details fly-out pane, you can also select specific actions for the agent, such
as Install, Block, Uninstall, and Pin for users.

View agent details
To access the details available for an agent, use the following steps:
1. Sign in to the Microsoft 365 admin center .
2. Navigate to Agents > All agents. The agent Registry tab will be selected.
3. Select an agent from the Registry list. The agent details will be displayed.
When you select an agent from the Registry, the details fly-out pane displays common actions
available for the agent. Actions for the agent are described in the following table:

--- Page 669 of 2193 ---
ﾉ Expand table
Agent Description
action
Install Deploys and installs the agent for the selected users at your organizations.
Uninstall Removes the agent. Members of your organization can't install or use the agent.
Block Blocks the agent from members of your organization. They won't be able to install or use the
agent. Additionally, the agent will be removed from any member of your organization who has
already installed it.
Update in Updates an existing agent in Agent Store based on a provided ZIP packet file.
store
Pin for The agent will be pinned in the UI (based on channel) where the agent was deployed, so that
users the agent can be found more easily. Based on the users or groups where the agent was
deployed, you can specify who will have the agent pinned.
For more information about agent actions, see Agent actions available in Microsoft 365 admin
center.
Tabs provided within agent details
The information, actions, and tabs provided in the agent details fly-out pane is based on agent
capabilities.
７ Note
The displayed tabs for an agent is based on the agent's capabilities. The tabs listed below
won't apply to every agent.
The following table provides agent tabs based on agent capability:
ﾉ Expand table
Agent tab Description
Details This tab provides a description, instructions, status, and other general details about the
agent.
Users This tab allows you to view and select the allowed users for the agent. You can selected
users that have the agent pre-installed and users that have the agent available to install.

--- Page 670 of 2193 ---
Agent tab Description
Data & Tools This tab provides details about Microsoft Purview protections, such as capabilities,
knowledge sources, and tools available to the agent. Also, it provides Microsoft Entra
protection details, such as Agent User ID and Agent ID.
Security This tab provides details about monitoring agent activity, protecting sensitive data, and
evaluating compliance gaps.
Permissions This tab allows you to review and grant permission to data the agent can access and
perform actions on. For more information, see Agent permissions.
Certification This tab gives you a single place to review the trust and attestation signals that are available
for the selected agent before you deploy the agent across your organization. For more
information, see Agent certification.
Activity This tab gives you a focused view of how a single agent is being used and how it's
performing across the tenant.
Agent This tab appears when you select an agent that is tagged as an AI teammate in the Agent
instances Registry. AI teammate agents are agent templates from which your organization can
instantiate one or more agent instances.
Connected This tab allows you to connect the selected agent with other agents. When using the
Agents selected agent, users can get additional information and answers from the connected
agents. You can connect up to 10 agents to the selected agent, excluding those added by
the agent's maker. Depending on how the agent's maker connected the agents, you may be
able to remove them as well. You must make sure the connected agents are available to
everyone who needs access.
Computer This tab is used to allow the selected agent to perform actions on behalf of the users, as
use well as access work data. Additionally, you can choose which websites are allowed for
Computer use. Note that Web search is required for Computer use.
Agent details
The Details tab provides details about the agent's intended purpose. This tab contains the
agent's description, instructions, publish status, availability, publisher, deployment, agent type,
channel, platform, last updated, sensitivity, and version. Use this tab to assess the agents general
capabilities and state.
Agent users
You can control how agents created in your organization are made available across your
organization. You can configure the following agent availability options:
Who can discover and install an agent

--- Page 671 of 2193 ---
Which users have the agent pre-installed
Whether the agent is available organization-wide or to specific groups
These options help organizations publish and install agents in a governed manner aligned with
internal compliance and rollout policies.
Agent availability and installation
Each agent includes availability and installation settings. The following table describes these
settings:
ﾉ Expand table
Setting Description
Installed for Controls which users automatically have the agent pre-installed.
Available to Controls which users can install and use an agent.
Set agent availability and installation
Agent availability and installation are independent actions. You can control who can discover an
agent, verses who has the agent automatically installed. For example:
You can publish an agent to one group of users (for example, Group A), allowing that group
to discover and install the agent.
You can install (pre-install) the same agent to a different group (for example, Group B).
If you install an agent to your entire organization, it will be automatically installed regardless of
its availability scope. This installation behavior is by design, based on the following conditions:
When an agent is made available to specific users, only those users can see and install it.
When you select to install the agent, the agent is installed for the targeted users, even if
they weren't included in the original availability audience.
Configure availability and installation
To set an individual agent's availability and installation settings from the Agent Registry within
Microsoft 365 admin center , use the following steps:
1. Select an agent to manage from the Agent Registry.
2. Select the Users tab in the agent details pane.

--- Page 672 of 2193 ---
3. Select Installed to to assign users that will have the agent pre-installed. Choose from the
following options:
Just me
Entire organization
Specific users/groups
4. Select Available to to select users that can install and use the agent. Choose from the
following options:
No users in the organization can install
All users in the organization can install
Specific users/groups can install
5. Select Update to save these settings.
Agent data & tools
The Data & tools tab, displayed in the fly-out pane of a selected agent in the agent Registry,
provides details about the selected agent can access and do within your organization. This tab
surfaces three categories of agent metadata:
Capabilities - How the agent can perform specific tasks and access data sources to provide
accurate, contextual responses.
Knowledge sources - Data that the agent uses to answer questions accurately.
Tools - Processes that the agent uses to handle requests.
You can use this information to understand the data the agent has access to, the external sources
it references, and the actions it can perform. By understanding these categories, you can make
informed governance decisions about the agents deployed in your tenant.
） Important
Admins with the AI Administrator or Global Administrator role have full access to view Data
& tools for all agents. Use roles with the fewest permissions. Accounts with lower
permissions help improve security for your organization. Global Administrator is a highly
privileged role. Limit its use to emergency scenarios when you can't use an existing role. For
more information, see About admin roles in the Microsoft 365 admin center.
View data and tools of an agent

--- Page 673 of 2193 ---
To access the Data and tools tab for an agent, use the following steps:
1. Select an agent from the Agent Registry list within Microsoft 365 admin center .
2. In the agent details pane, select the Data & tools tab.
The Data & tools tab is read-only and shows metadata reported by the agent platform. To
change an agent's data sources or tools, the agent developer must update the agent
configuration in the authoring platform, such as Copilot Studio, or Foundry.
Some agents may have an empty Data & tools tab. This occurs based on the following
conditions:
The agent developer didn't configure knowledge sources or tools for the agent.
The agent type doesn't support these metadata fields.
The agent's metadata hasn't yet synced to Microsoft 365 admin center.
Agent capabilities
The Capabilities section of the Data & tools tab shows the types of content and data sources the
agent can access to provide accurate, contextual responses.
The Can read section indicates the categories of content the agent has been granted read access
to. The following table provides examples of content that can be included:
ﾉ Expand table
Category Description
Public sites Agent can read publicly accessible web content
Organization files Agent can read files within your Microsoft 365 tenant (SharePoint, OneDrive)
Email Agent can read user email content
Calendar Agent can read calendar events
７ Note
The capabilities shown depend on the permissions configured for the agent and may vary by
agent type and platform.
Public sites refers to when the agent can access publicly available web content. This doesn't
mean the agent has unrestricted internet access, it can read public web pages as a

--- Page 674 of 2193 ---
knowledge source to inform its responses.
Agent knowledge sources
The Knowledge sources section provides data sources and URLs that the agent uses to answer
questions accurately. These knowledge sources are the external or internal references the agent
draws from when responding to user queries.
The following table provides knowledge sources and examples that can be included with the
agent:
ﾉ Expand table
Source type Examples
Web URLs https://bing.com/, https://contoso.com/docs/
SharePoint sites https://contoso.sharepoint.com/sites/hr-policies
Files and folders Specific documents or folder paths configured as the agent's knowledge base
Graph connectors Data indexed via Microsoft Graph connectors
７ Note
Review knowledge source URLs to verify the agent is only referencing approved, trusted
sources. Unfamiliar or external URLs may indicate the agent has access to data outside your
organization's boundaries.
Agent tools
The Tools section, within the Data & Tools tab, provides the processes, connectors, and actions
that the agent uses to handle requests. Tools represent what the agent can do, not just what it
can read.
The following table provides tool types and examples that can be included with the agent:
ﾉ Expand table
Tool type Examples
Microsoft 365 connectors shared_office365_ContactGetItem_V2 (reads contact data from Office 365)

--- Page 675 of 2193 ---
Tool type Examples
MCP servers Third-party or customer-hosted MCP servers connected to the agent
Work IQ tools Work IQ Mail (Preview) (email-related actions)
Custom actions API actions defined by the agent developer
７ Note
Each tool listed represents an action the agent can invoke at runtime. Review the tool list to
understand the scope of what the agent can do on behalf of users. Tools that access external
services or write data (send email, update records) warrant closer review.
Data & tools by agent type
The metadata surfaced in the Data & tools tab varies depending on the agent type and platform.
Agent type is largely based on the tool and method of creating the agent.
７ Note
Currently, Microsoft 365 admin center doesn't have data and tools information for all agents.
Agent security
The Security tab helps you monitor agent activity, protect sensitive data, and evaluate
compliance gaps based on Microsoft Purview protections.
７ Note
A Microsoft E7 or Agent 365 license is required to see the Risks column in the Agent
Registry and to see the Security tab details of an agent.
View agent security details
To access the Security tab for an agent, use the following steps:
1. Select an agent from the Agent Registry list in the Microsoft 365 admin center .
2. In the agent details pane, select the Security tab.

--- Page 676 of 2193 ---
The Security tab provides the following actions related to Microsoft Purview protections:
Monitor agent activity
Protect sensitive data
Evaluate compliance gaps
Monitor agent activity
Interactions with a selected agent are monitored for security and observability. You can view
agent activity using the Activity explorer in Microsoft Purview. Activity explorer allows you to
review activity related to content that contains sensitive information, including label activity. Label
activity is monitored across Exchange, SharePoint, OneDrive, and endpoint devices. For more
information, see Get started with activity explorer.
Protect sensitive data
Protection for sensitive data helps prevent leaks and oversharing. You can view sensitive
interactions using AI observability in Microsoft Purview. AI observability provides a centralized
view of agent activity across your organization. For more information, see Microsoft Purview data
security and compliance protections for generative AI apps.
Evaluate compliance gaps
If the selected agent has an AI baseline assessment available, you can evaluate compliance gaps
for your agent. For more information, see Microsoft Purview Compliance Manager.
Agent permissions
In the Microsoft 365 admin center, when granting permissions to agents, consider two types of
permissions:
Application Permissions
Delegated Permissions
Each permission type grants different actions that agents can perform on behalf of users,
depending on the scope of the access. This section explains these two types of permissions and
provides an overview of the common permissions available.
Application Permissions

--- Page 677 of 2193 ---
Application Permissions let the agent access data and perform actions without requiring a user
to sign in. These permissions let agents do tasks without needing a user to be signed in, like
reading directory data, managing teams, or sending messages.
Key features of application permissions:
No user context required - The agent can operate without an active user session.
Wide-reaching capabilities - Agents with application permissions can act at the
organizational level, allowing access to a large range of data.
Administrator consent required - Administrator consent is typically required for granting
application permissions.
Common Application Permissions
ﾉ Expand table
Permission Details
Group.Read.All Read all groups in the organization.
TeamsActivity.Send Send a teamwork activity to any user.
RoleManagement.Read.Directory Read all directory role-based access control (RBAC) settings.
User.Read.All Read all users' full profiles.
Team.ReadBasic.All Get a list of all teams in the organization.
Delegated Permissions
Delegated Permissions allow the agent to act on behalf of a user when the user is signed in.
These permissions provide access to user-specific data and allow agents to perform actions in the
context of a particular user.
Use delegated permissions for applications where the agent interacts directly with the user's data
or takes actions on their behalf.
Key features of delegated permissions
User context required - The agent performs actions with the signed-in user's permission.
Granular access - These permissions are typically more restricted, limiting access to only the
user's data.

--- Page 678 of 2193 ---
User consent might be required - Depending on the permissions, users might need to
grant consent for the application to act on their behalf.
Common delegated permissions
ﾉ Expand table
Permission Details
User.ReadBasic.All Read all users' basic profiles.
TeamsActivity.Send Send a teamwork activity to any user.
RoleManagement.Read.Directory Read all directory role-based access control (RBAC) settings.
User.Read.All Read all users' full profiles.
Team.ReadBasic.All Get a list of all teams.
View permissions of an agent
You can find the details of all types of permissions in the Permissions tab on the agent details
page.
1. Select a deployed agent from the Agent Registry list in the Microsoft 365 admin center .
2. In the agent details pane that opens, select the Permissions tab to view all the permissions
granted to the agent.

--- Page 679 of 2193 ---

Agent certification
The Certification tab provided in the agent's details pane in the Microsoft 365 admin center gives
you a single place to review the trust and attestation signals that are available for the selected
agent before you deploy the agent across your organization. For Microsoft-built agents and
agents from external publishers, this tab surfaces the publisher attestation provided by the
agent's developer, along with any Microsoft 365 Certification status that's been earned through
Microsoft's app certification program. Publisher attestation captures the developer's self-reported
information about how the agent handles data, security, and compliance. Microsoft 365
Certification reflects an independent security and compliance assessment that's valid for 12
months and helps confirm that the agent meets Microsoft's standards for handling tenant data.
By reviewing the Certification tab alongside the Overview, Data & tools, and Security tabs, you
can make an informed governance decision for the agent, where you can approve, deploy, block,

--- Page 680 of 2193 ---
or remove the agent. Your decision may largely be based on who built the agent, what it has
been validated against, and the level of trust the publisher has documented.
Agent activity
The Activity tab displayed in the agent details of the Microsoft 365 admin center gives you a
focused view of how a single agent is being used and how it's performing across the tenant. By
default, the metrics on this tab reflect the last 30 days, and you can adjust the date range to
scope the view to a different time window.
７ Note
A Microsoft E7 or Agent 365 license is required to see the Activity tab details of an agent.
Additional details include the following:
Active users - The number of unique users who interacted with the agent at least once
during the selected date range. A user counts as active after a single interaction, regardless
of how many times they engage with the agent.
Sessions - The number of conversations in the selected date range. A conversation is
defined as back-and-forth interactions between a user and an agent. Each new session
starts after 30 minutes of inactivity.
Exceptions - The number of sessions in the selected date range that had an error. This
metric helps administrators spot reliability issues and investigate agents that are failing to
complete work as expected.
Agent run-time - The total hours worked by the agent over the selected date range,
calculated from when a user starts an interaction with an agent to when the agent
completes its activities, such as executing tool calls and preparing responses. Use this metric
to gauge the overall workload an agent accomplishes on behalf of users.
Snapshots provide agent activity:
Active users over time
Sessions over time
Active users
User principal name
Total sessions
Last activity date (UTC)

--- Page 681 of 2193 ---
７ Note
The Active users table can be exported to a CSV file. The table also supports pagination.
These signals let you monitor, adoption, measure impact, and identify agents that need your
attention. Agent that needs your attention may include high exception rates, low active-users
counts, and long run-times. Activity metrics are currently supported for Microsoft 365 Copilot
Agent Builder, SharePoint, and Microsoft 365 Agents Toolkit agent types.
Agent instances
The Instances tab appears when you select an agent that is tagged as an AI teammate in the
Agent Registry. AI teammate agents are agent templates from which your organization can
instantiate one or more agent instances. Agent instances receive their own Microsoft Entra-
backed agent identity, license, mailbox, OneDrive, and Teams presence so they can participate in
Microsoft 365 workflows.
The Instances tab allows you to review a detailed table of all instances created from the selected
agent. The table provides the following columns:
Name - The name of the agent instance.
Email - The email for the agent instance.
Status - The status of the agent, such as Active or Not active.
Risks - The number of detected risks.
Total sessions - The total number of sessions over the last 30 days.
Owner - The owner of the agent instance.
Selecting a row opens that instance's details. Based on your assigned role (such as AI
Administrator or Global Administrator), you can manage individual instance settings, review
security and compliance status, assign or update Microsoft 365 licenses, and take lifecycle actions
such as Block, Unblock, or Delete the instance.
For more information about agent instances, see Manage agent instances in Microsoft 365 admin
center.
Connected agents

--- Page 682 of 2193 ---
The Connected Agents tab allows you to connect the selected agent with other agents. When
using the selected agent, users can get additional information and answers from the connected
agents. You can connect up to 10 agents to the selected agent, excluding those added by the
agent's maker. Depending on how the agent maker connected the agents, you may be able to
remove them as well.
） Important
You must make sure the connected agents are available to everyone who needs access.
The Connected agents tab provides a table of agents that are currently connected.
Add a connected agent
To add a connected agent in the Agent Registry list in Microsoft 365 admin center :
1. Select an agent from the Registry list. The agent details will be displayed.
2. Select the Connected agents tab.
3. Select Connect agents.
4. Using the search box, add the name of the agent to connect.
5. Select the checkbox next to the agent.
6. Select Save.
Computer use
The Computer use tab appears in the agent details pane for select agents that support
computer-use capabilities, such as Researcher. When an agent supports this feature, an extra
Computer use tab is shown alongside the other agent details tabs. Computer use allows you to
govern how the agent interacts with web content through a secure virtual computer. For
Researcher specifically, you can extend Researcher beyond research and reasoning, allowing it to
securely interact with public, gated, and interactive web content through a Windows 365-backed
virtual computer. You can select whether Research can generate richer reports grounded in both
their work data and the web. The Computer use tab is where you establish the guardrails before
users can take advantage of these capabilities.
The Computer use tab allows you to configure three primary policies that scope who can use the
feature, what work data it can combine with the web, and which sites the virtual computer is
allowed to reach:

--- Page 683 of 2193 ---
Allow Researcher with Computer Use to perform actions on behalf of users: Choose who
in your organization can use Researcher with Computer Use. When access is disabled for a
user, the Computer use option appears grayed out in the Researcher experience.
Allow Researcher to access work data: Control whether users can combine enterprise data
(such as emails, chats, and files) with web-based research during a Computer use session.
Choose which websites are allowed for Computer Use: Define which sites the virtual
computer is allowed to navigate.
For more information, see Researcher with Computer Use admin configuration.
Manage agents with embedded file content as a
knowledge source
Agent creators can use Agent Builder in Microsoft 365 Copilot to upload files for the agent to use
as knowledge. Copilot stores the uploaded files in tenant-owned SharePoint Embedded
containers. It then embeds the file content as knowledge for the agent to use in responses. For
more information, see Embedded file content.
） Important
Microsoft Purview Information Barriers (IB) isn't supported on embedded files. Any user
who can access the agent can see responses grounded in the embedded file content.
This article explains how to handle embedded files, how you can manage agents and containers,
and what to expect with sensitivity labels and deletion workflows.
Supported file types and limits

--- Page 684 of 2193 ---

Embedded knowledge agents support uploading files as knowledge sources. Copilot only uses
the text content of these files for grounding.
Supported file types
.doc, .docx
.ppt, .pptx
.xls, .xlsx
.pdf
.txt
Maximum file size
ﾉ Expand table
File type Maximum file size
.doc, .ppt, .xls, .xlsx, .txt 150 MB
.docx, .pptx, and .pdf 512 MB
Files that exceed these limits aren't accepted.
Maximum number of files

--- Page 685 of 2193 ---
Users can upload up to 20 files per agent.
SharePoint Embedded containers
When you upload a file to an agent, Copilot stores the file in a SharePoint Embedded container.
The Microsoft 365 service automatically creates this container and your organization owns it. The
container appears in the SharePoint admin center and PowerShell under the application name
Declarative Agent.
） Important
Don't delete these containers. Deleting these containers might break the functionality of
agents that rely on them.
View agent metadata
In the All agents page in the Microsoft 365 admin center, you can filter the agent inventory to
view only agents that use embedded files as knowledge sources.

For each agent, the following metadata is available:
File name - The name of the uploaded file.
File sensitivity - The sensitivity label applied to the file.
SharePoint container ID - The unique identifier for the container storing the file.

--- Page 686 of 2193 ---
This metadata helps you track and audit the use of embedded content across agents.
Sensitivity labels and access control
The service applies sensitivity labels to the embedded content in the agent based on the most
restrictive label from the uploaded files. The following rules determine how the service applies
sensitivity labels:
Whichever of the following labels are more restrictive:
Most restrictive sensitivity label of all files uploaded. For example, the highest priority of
the labels on the uploaded files.
If your organization configured and applied a default sensitivity label policy.
If a default sensitivity labeling policy is in place, the service automatically assigns a label.
The service only applies sensitivity labels if:
You create the agent by using Microsoft 365 Copilot Agent Builder.
The agent includes embedded files.
You can view the sensitivity label for each agent in the Overview tab of the Microsoft 365 admin
center.

--- Page 687 of 2193 ---

User access and visibility
If a user doesn't have extract rights to any of the sensitivity labels applied to the uploaded
files, they can't access the agent.
If a user has extract rights, they can view the agent's sensitivity label in the agent details
pane.
For more information, see Sensitivity labels for agent embedded content.
Researcher with Computer Use admin configuration
For Researcher with Computer Use onboarding instructions, see the following short video:
https://www.youtube-nocookie.com/embed/N3vLF9mnd8w?si=XJaYnCQYNy_CeuFc
Researcher with Computer Use is a powerful extension that builds on the capabilities of the
Researcher agent. By using Computer Use, the Researcher agent can securely interact with public,
gated, and interactive web content through a virtual computer. By using this method, users can

--- Page 688 of 2193 ---
uncover deeper insights, take action, and generate richer reports grounded in both their work
data and the web. For more information, see Use Researcher with Computer use in Microsoft 365
Copilot .

Configure admin settings for Researcher agent with Computer Use
To configure admin settings for Researcher agent with Computer Use, follow these steps:
1. Go to the Microsoft Admin Controls (Microsoft 365 admin center) Agents page.
2. In the left navigation pane, select Researcher under Agents, and check if there's another tab
for Computer Use.
3. Customize users that have access to Researcher with Computer Use.

--- Page 689 of 2193 ---

There are three options for configuring who has access to the experience:
a. Allow all users in your organization.
b. Allow specific users or groups only.
c. No users in your organization.

--- Page 690 of 2193 ---

For users that have this option disabled, the Computer Use option is grayed out.

4. Configure Work access for Researcher with Computer Use:
The Work option allows users to toggle on Work in the Sources menu, allowing
Researcher agent to use a user's work content with Computer Use. For example,
emails, chats, and files.

--- Page 691 of 2193 ---
When enabled by admins, users must still manually toggle on Work access.

When disabled, the Work source appears grayed out and isn't selectable.

5. Select which websites are allowed for Computer Use:

--- Page 692 of 2193 ---
There are three options for configuring websites the virtual device can access:
a. All websites.
b. Allow specific URLs or domains only.
c. Exclude specific URLs or domains.
You can allow All websites, block some websites by using the Exclude specified
option, or only allow certain sites by using the Allow specified option.
Learn more about Researcher with Computer Use
Introducing Researcher with Computer Use in Microsoft 365 Copilot .
Get started using Researcher with Computer Use .
Frequently asked questions for Researcher with Computer Use.
Agent metadata in the Microsoft 365 admin center

--- Page 693 of 2193 ---

You can access key metadata for Copilot agents in Agents > All Agents. When you select an
agent, you see the metadata in the Data & tools tab.
The metadata includes details such as the agent's capabilities, data sources, and custom actions.
Example data sources include OneDrive and SharePoint files and sites, or Graph connectors.
Metadata is only for custom agents, which are designed to perform specific tasks based on
predefined rules and configurations.
Last updated on 05/26/2026

--- Page 694 of 2193 ---
Governance and Lifecycle actions for agents
available in Microsoft 365 admin center
The Microsoft 365 admin center provides governance and lifecycle management capabilities for
agents through the Agent Registry. These capabilities enable administrators to manage agent
visibility, access, distribution, and retirement across the tenant.
Agent actions
７ Note
Microsoft 365 for government Community Cloud High (GCCH) and Government Community
Cloud Moderate (GCCM) environments support publishing agents to the organization.
ﾉ Expand table
Agent actions Description
Install and Install an agent for users so it's ready to use without manual installation by end users.
uninstall Admin can uninstall a previously installed agent.
Block and Restrict access to an agent across the organization, preventing any user from using it.
unblock
Delete Delete agents and any associated files. When you delete an agent, it permanently
removes the agent from the inventory and deletes all associated files.
Assign a new Assign a new owner to agents that are ownerless or active.
owner
Publish to store Make a requested agent available to members of your organization by publishing the
agent to Agent Store. For more information, see Actions for requested agents.
Reject Prevent a requested agent from becoming available to members of your organization. For
submission more information, see Actions for requested agents.
７ Note
For information about actions related to the agent registry list, such as Export to Excel,
Upload custom agent, and Manage pinned agents, see Agent registry in the Microsoft 365

--- Page 695 of 2193 ---
admin center.
Install agents
You can install agents across the whole organization or for specific users or groups by using the
same controls that work for any other app in the Microsoft 365 admin center.
To install an agent via the Microsoft 365 admin center, follow these steps:
1. Sign in to the Microsoft 365 admin center .
2. From the left navigation bar, select ... Show all, and then select Agents to expand it.
3. Under Agents, select All agents.
4. In the All agents page, make sure Registry is selected. Select the Status filter and then
select Available.
5. From the list of agents, select an agent that isn't already installed.
6. In the agent details pane that opens, immediately under the agent's name, select Install.
7. In the Deploy agent to selected users pane, decide whether to install the agent to all users
or to specific users or groups, and then select Next.


--- Page 696 of 2193 ---
8. In the Review permissions pane, review the requested permissions for the agent. If the
permissions are acceptable, select Grant admin consent. For more information, see Agent
permissions.
9. In the Permissions requested window, select Accept to grant the permissions to the agent,
and then select Next.
10. In the Review & finish pane, select Finish deployment.
Installing an agent affects its availability and functionality in Copilot and in the other host
products, such as Outlook, Teams, or Microsoft 365.
Uninstall agents
You can uninstall first-party or external agents across the whole organization or for specific users
or groups by using the same controls that work for any other agent in the Microsoft 365 admin
center.
To uninstall an agent via the Microsoft 365 admin center, follow these steps:
1. Sign in to the Microsoft 365 admin center .
2. From the left navigation bar, select ... Show all, and then select Agents to expand it.
3. Under Agents, select All agents.
4. In the All agents page, make sure Registry is selected. Select the Status filter and then
select Available.
5. Select an installed agent from the list of agents.
6. In the agent details pane that opens, immediately under the agent's name, select Uninstall.
７ Note
If you don't see the Uninstall option, the selected agent might not be installed.
7. In the Remove agent pane, select the Remove agent option, and then select the Uninstall
Agent button.
Uninstalling an agent affects its availability and functionality in Copilot and in the other host
products, such as Microsoft Outlook, Microsoft Teams, or other Microsoft 365 applications.

--- Page 697 of 2193 ---
Block or unblock agents
Block or unblock agents for the entire organization by using the same controls that work for any
other app in the Microsoft 365 admin center.
To block or unblock an agent, follow these steps:
1. Sign in to the Microsoft 365 admin center .
2. From the left navigation bar, select ... Show all, and then select Agents to expand it.
3. Under Agents, select All agents.
4. In the All agents page, select an agent from the list of agents.
5. In the agent details pane that opens, immediately under the agent's name, select Block or
Unblock.
6. In the Block agent or Unblock agent pane that opens, select either Block agent or Unblock
agent, and then select Save.

Blocking or unblocking an agent that you created by using Microsoft 365 Copilot Agent Builder
and Microsoft 365 Copilot Studio affects its availability and functionality in Microsoft 365 Copilot.
It also affects availability and functionality in other host products, such as Microsoft Outlook,
Microsoft Teams, or other Microsoft 365 applications. However, blocking an agent that you

--- Page 698 of 2193 ---
created by using SharePoint or Microsoft Foundry only impacts its availability in Microsoft 365
Copilot Chat.
７ Note
For the Researcher and Analyst agents, the Edit users panel is disabled. To manage
their availability, block the agent for the entire tenant by using the Block action in the
Microsoft 365 admin center.
Delete agents
You can delete agents created using Microsoft 365 Copilot Agent Builder directly from the
Microsoft 365 admin center. Delete permanently removes the agent and its data from the tenant.
To delete an Agent Builder agent, follow these steps:
1. Sign in to the Microsoft 365 admin center .
2. From the left navigation bar, select ... Show all, and then select Agents to expand it.
3. Under Agents, select All agents.
4. In the All agents page, from the list of agents find the Agent Builder agent that you want to
delete.
 Tip
To quickly find Agent Builder agents, use the Platform filter in the All agents page and
then select Agent Builder in Microsoft 365 Copilot.
5. Next to the Agent Builder agent you want to delete, select the vertical ellipses (⁝) and then
select Delete.
When you delete an agent, the following actions occur:
1. Microsoft 365 removes the agent from the inventory.
2. All associated files are deleted.
3. The underlying SharePoint Embedded container is deleted.

--- Page 699 of 2193 ---
This deletion process is irreversible. Once you delete an agent, it might take up to 24 hours for
the deletion to reach all users who had access to the agent. During this time, users might still see
the agent listed, but they can't interact with it.
Assign new owner to an agent
IT administrators can reassign ownership for agents that are ownerless or active.
） Important
Reassigning ownership of shared agents is only supported for Agent Builder and Copilot
Studio agents.
To reassign ownership of a shared agent, follow these steps:
1. Sign in to the Microsoft 365 admin center .
2. From the left navigation bar, select ... Show all, and then select Agents to expand it.
3. Under Agents, select All agents.
4. In the All agents page, from the list of agents select an Agent Builder or Copilot Studio
agent that you want to reassign.
 Tip
To quickly find Agent Builder or Copilot Studio agents, use the Platform filter in the All
agents page and then select either Agent Builder in Microsoft 365 Copilot or Copilot
Studio.
5. In the agent details pane, immediately under the agent name, select Assign new owner.
6. In the Assign a new owner pane, enter a new owner from your organization, and then
select Assign.
The following changes occur after owner reassignment:
The new owner gets full edit and delete permissions, plus access to any files the previous
owner uploaded.
The previous owner loses all access, including read rights.

--- Page 700 of 2193 ---
Last updated on 05/06/2026

--- Page 701 of 2193 ---
Manage agent instances in Microsoft 365
admin center
Once an admin activates an agent, requestor can create instances of that agent. The Microsoft
365 admin center provides a centralized view for managing these instances:
Agent Registry - Navigate to Agents > All agents > Registry. You can view agents with the
AI teammate tag. You'll also the number of instances that have been created for the specific
agent.
Agent Details - Select an agent to open a flyout panel that displays the agent details. Select
the Instances tab in the panel.
Instance tab - Select the Instances tab to display a detailed list of all instances created
under that agent. From this panel, administrators can perform the following actions:
Manage individual instances - Access and update settings for each instance.
Review security and compliance status - Ensure every instance meets organizational
standards.
Apply and customize licenses - Assign licenses and configure options at the instance
level.
This streamlined experience helps administrators maintain control, compliance, and flexibility
across all agent instances.
） Important
Certain features are available within Microsoft 365 admin center based on services licensed
in your subscription. To view your licensed subscriptions in the Microsoft 365 admin
center , select Billing > Licenses > Subscriptions. For more information, see Plans and
licensing.
Block agent instances
You can block or unblock agent instances for the entire organization using the same controls
available for any other app in the Microsoft 365 admin center. Blocking an instance stops it and
any actions it's performing.

--- Page 702 of 2193 ---
To block or unblock an agent:
1. In the Microsoft 365 admin center , go to Agents > All Agents.
2. Select the agent with the AI teammate tag from the list. The agent details panel opens.
3. Under the Instance tab, the Instance list view is displayed.
4. Select the instance to see all details of the agent instance.
5. Select an instance and choose Block.
To restore functionality, the administrator can Unblock the instance at any time.
Delete agent instances
Administrators can delete an instance from the Microsoft 365 admin center when it's no longer
needed.
1. In the left navigation pane, select Agents > All agents.
2. Select the agent with the AI teammate tag from the list. The agent details panel opens.
3. Under the Instance tab, the Instance list view is displayed.
4. Select the instance to see all details of the agent instance.
5. Select the instance you want to delete, then select Delete.
6. Confirm the deletion when prompted.
7. Notify the owner of the deletion.
8. Remove or reassign Microsoft 365 licenses tied to the instance.
9. After 30 days, all instance accounts and data are permanently deleted. Audit logs are kept.
10. Once deleted, the instance no longer appears in the list.
Last updated on 05/20/2026

--- Page 703 of 2193 ---
Manage Connected Agents for Researcher
in the Microsoft 365 admin center
） Important
This feature is only available for Frontier tenants.
The Connected Agents tab for Researcher allows administrators to link additional agents that
can provide information and answers when users interact with Researcher. This helps extend
Researcher's capabilities by leveraging other agents within your organization.
What Are Connected Agents
Connected agents are other Copilot-enabled agents that can share data or insights with
Researcher. When connected, users can query Researcher and receive responses that include
information from these linked agents.
Key Details
Limit - Up to 10 agents can be connected to Researcher by admins.
Exclusions - Agents added by the maker cannot be removed by admins.
Access - Ensure connected agents are available to everyone who needs access.
How to Connect Agents
1. In the Microsoft 365 admin center , navigate to Agents > All agents.
2. Select Researcher and then go to the Connected Agents tab.
3. Select + Connect agents.
4. In the Select agent to connect panel:
Use the search bar to find agents.
Check the box next to the agents you want to connect.
5. Select Save to confirm.
Managing Connected Agents

--- Page 704 of 2193 ---
Remove an Agent - From the Connected Agents list, select the agent and click Remove.
Reset to Default - Use this option to clear all custom connections and revert to the
default state.
Last updated on 11/18/2025

--- Page 705 of 2193 ---
Manage tools for agents in Microsoft 365
admin center
Agent Tools in the Microsoft 365 admin center provides a centralized view of all AI-powered
tools and Model Context Protocol (MCP) servers available in your organization. These tools
define how an AI model interacts with user data, tools, and workflows. Agent Tools allows you to
handle requests, responses, and actions in a consistent, safe, secure, and transparent manner.
Each tool listed represents a service that supports Copilot experiences across Microsoft 365 apps.
You can monitor availability, manage access, and ensure compliance with organizational policies.
Use the Registry tab to view and manage tools available in your tenant, and the Requests tab to
review and approve tool requests from users in your organization.
７ Note
The Bring Your Own (BYO) MCP server feature enables organizations to register their own
remote MCP servers with Agent 365 for centralized governance and observability. For more
information, see Bring your own (BYO) MCP server.
View the Agent Tools registry
1. Sign in to the Microsoft 365 admin center .
2. In the left navigation pane, select Agents > Tools > Registry.

--- Page 706 of 2193 ---

Key components of Agent Tools
Agent Tools list under the Registry tab and Request tab provides filter, columns, and actions to
help you manage your agent tools.
Actions
You can select the available actions directly from the list, or select the listed agent to display an
overview of an agent tool. Agent tools include the following actions:
ﾉ Expand table
Action Description
Block Prevents the selected tool from being used by agents or workflows.
Unblock Restores access to a previously blocked tool.
Filters
The agent tools registry can contain a large and diverse inventory of tools. You can filter the list
to help you narrow the view to the agent tools that you want to focus on at the moment.

--- Page 707 of 2193 ---
Filters are based on the following criteria:
ﾉ Expand table
Filter Description
Status Filter tools by their current state, such as Available or Blocked.
Publisher View tools published by Microsoft or other providers.
Columns
The following table describes the columns that are available in the agent tools registry:
ﾉ Expand table
Column Description
Name The tool's display name, such as Microsoft Teams MCP Server.
Status Shows whether the tool is Available or Blocked.
Type Shows the tool category, such as MCP Server.
Publisher Shows the publisher, such as Microsoft for first-party tools.
Common MCP servers
You use an MCP servers as a service to expose data, actions, and business logic to agents.
The following are examples of MCP servers:
Dataverse MCP Server
Windows 365 for Agents MCP server
Microsoft MCP management MCP server
Admin tools MCP Server for Microsoft 365 admin center
For related information, see Microsoft Agent 365 SDK and CLI.
Bring your own (BYO) MCP server
The Bring Your Own (BYO) MCP server feature enables organizations to register their own remote
MCP servers with Microsoft Agent 365 for centralized governance and observability.

--- Page 708 of 2193 ---
） Important
This is a preview feature.
Preview features aren't meant for production use and might have restricted
functionality. These features are subject to supplemental terms of use, and are
available before an official release so that customers can get early access and provide
feedback.
Large enterprises often build and operate internal MCP servers to power their agents across
various business workflows. These servers typically run outside any organizational governance
boundary, with no admin visibility into what tools are being exposed, no policy enforcement over
how they're invoked, and no usage of telemetry for security and compliance teams. BYO MCP
server addresses this problem by routing registered servers through the Agent 365 Tooling
Gateway, giving IT admins control via the Microsoft 365 admin center and security teams the
observability data they need.
７ Note
BYO MCP server is currently in preview. Supported client surfaces are Copilot Studio, VS
Code, Claude Code, and GitHub Copilot CLI. Azure AI Foundry and Microsoft 365 Declarative
Agents aren't yet supported.
How a BYO MCP server works
A BYO MCP server follows a structured developer-to-admin flow to ensure all remote MCP
servers are reviewed and governed before being made available to agents.
The BYO MCP server developer-to-admin flow:
1. Developer registers a remote MCP server via the Agent 365 CLI, providing the server URL,
authentication type, and the tools to expose. For more information, see Register a remote
MCP server.
2. IT admin reviews the server details and declared tools in the Microsoft 365 admin center,
and approves or rejects the request. Upon approval, the admin grants the required
Microsoft Entra permissions for the server. For more information, see Review and approve
tool requests.

--- Page 709 of 2193 ---
3. Approved MCP server is used by the supported clients, such as Copilot Studio and VS
Code, to build and test agents against real tool invocations. For more information, see Use
an approved MCP server.
4. Security team monitors the MCP server activity and tool invocations through Microsoft
Defender advanced hunting for compliance and anomaly detection. For more information,
see Monitor and observe MCP server activity.
） Important
This approach ensures that all external MCP integrations go through proper governance and
compliance reviews before becoming available to end users.
７ Note
BYO MCP server is currently in preview. Republishing new versions of your remote MCP
server isn't currently supported.
Register a remote MCP server
 Tip
As an administrator, it can be helpful to understand how to register a remote MCP server.
Alternatively, you can provide the steps in this section to a developer to implement.
You, or a developer, can register your own remote MCP server with Agent 365. This section walks
you through the required steps to register a remote MCP server with Agent 365 using the CLI, so
that IT admins can review and approve it for use in agent building surfaces.
This section provides the needed steps (commonly implemented by a developer) to register a
remote MCP server:
Understand developer prerequisites
Install the Agent 365 CLI
Register your MCP server
Developer prerequisites
Before registering a remote MCP server, make sure you have the following prerequisites:

--- Page 710 of 2193 ---
Install the Agent 365 CLI (or update to the latest version). For this flow to function, you need
version 1.1.165-preview or greater.
Ensure the Agent 365 service principal is provisioned in your tenant. If you can't find the
service principal associated with appId ea9ffc3e-8a23-4a7d-836d-234d7c7565c1, the service
principal isn't provisioned for your tenant. To set up a service principal for Agent 365 in your
tenant, see:
Set up service principal
Learn who can provision service principal
A publicly accessible MCP server endpoint that you can reach from the internet.
The server is configured with one of the supported authentication types:
NoAuth
APIKey (Header or Query)
ExternalOAuth
EntraOAuth
Install the Agent 365 CLI
To install the Agent 365 CLI, follow the instructions in Install the Agent 365 CLI.
Register your MCP server
After you install the Agent 365 CLI and make sure that your MCP server endpoint is publicly
accessible and configured with a supported authentication type, you're ready to register your
MCP server with Agent 365. IT admins can review and approve it for use in agent building
surfaces.
You have a couple of options for registering your MCP server with Agent 365:
Manual registration via CLI: Run the a365 develop-mcp register-external-mcp-server
command from the CLI and manually provide the server details, authentication type, and
the tools that your MCP server exposes.
） Important
The examples in this section use zava.com as a fictional domain and generic server and tool
names for illustration. Replace these values with your actual server URL, name, and tool
identifiers.

--- Page 711 of 2193 ---
Registration via JSON file: Use a365 develop-mcp register-external-mcp-server -f <path-
to-file.json> to register your MCP server by providing a JSON file that contains all of the
server details, authentication type, and tool definitions in a single file, rather than specifying
them individually on the command line.
Refer to the examples in the following sections for how to register an MCP server with Agent 365
using the CLI for different authentication types.
NoAuth
For MCP servers that require no authentication:
Bash
a365 develop-mcp register-external-mcp-server \
--server-name "ZavaServer" \
--server-url "https://mcp.zava.com/mcp" \
--publisher "Contoso" \
--description "My external MCP server for document search" \
--auth-type "NoAuth" \
--tools "tool1,tool2"
JSON
{
"serverName": "ext_DocsSearch",
"serverUrl": "https://docs.contoso.com/api/mcp",
"authType": "NoAuth",
"description": "Documentation search MCP Server for Contoso developer docs.",
"publisherName": "Contoso",
"tools": [
{
"name": "search_docs",
"description": "Search Contoso developer documentation and code samples."
}
],
"remoteScopes": null,
"externalOAuth": null,
"apiKey": null
}
APIKey (Query Parameter)
For servers that pass the API key as a query parameter:
Bash

--- Page 712 of 2193 ---
a365 develop-mcp register-external-mcp-server \
--server-name "ZavaServer" \
--server-url "https://mcp.zava.com/mcp" \
--publisher "Contoso" \
--description "My external MCP server for document search" \
--auth-type APIKey \
--api-key-location Query \
--api-key-name apiKey \
--tools "tool1,tool2"
JSON
{
"serverName": "ext_MarketData",
"serverUrl": "https://api.contoso.com/market/mcp",
"authType": "APIKey",
"description": "Real-time stock market data and search from Contoso Market
Services.",
"publisherName": "Contoso",
"tools": [
{
"name": "stock-market-data",
"description": "Get real-time stock market data and financial information."
},
{
"name": "real-time-search",
"description": "Search the web for real-time information and news."
}
],
"remoteScopes": null,
"externalOAuth": null,
"apiKey": {
"location": "Query",
"name": "apiKey"
}
}
APIKey (Header)
For servers that pass the API key in a request header:
Bash
a365 develop-mcp register-external-mcp-server \
--server-name "ZavaServer" \
--server-url "https://mcp.zava.com/mcp" \
--publisher "Contoso" \
--description "My external MCP server for document search" \
--auth-type APIKey \
--api-key-location Header \

--- Page 713 of 2193 ---
--api-key-name token \
--tools "tool1,tool2"
JSON
{
"serverName": "ext_InternalTools",
"serverUrl": "https://tools.contoso.com/mcp",
"authType": "APIKey",
"description": "Contoso internal tools MCP Server with API key authentication.",
"publisherName": "Contoso",
"tools": [
{
"name": "tool1",
"description": "First tool exposed by the server."
},
{
"name": "tool2",
"description": "Second tool exposed by the server."
}
],
"remoteScopes": null,
"externalOAuth": null,
"apiKey": {
"location": "Header",
"name": "X-API-Key"
}
}
ExternalOAuth
For servers that authenticate via an external OAuth provider:
Bash
a365 develop-mcp register-external-mcp-server \
--server-name "ZavaServer" \
--server-url "https://zava.com/mcp" \
--publisher "Contoso" \
--description "My external MCP server for document search" \
--auth-type ExternalOAuth \
--idp-authorization-url "https://idp.zava.com/o/oauth2/v2/auth" \
--idp-token-url "https://idp.zava.com/oauth2/token" \
--idp-scopes "https://api.zava.com/read" \
--idp-client-id "<your-client-id>" \
--idp-client-secret "<your-client-secret>" \
--remote-scopes "https://api.zava.com/read" \
--tools "tool1,tool2"
JSON

--- Page 714 of 2193 ---
{
"serverName": "ext_Analytics",
"serverUrl": "https://analytics.contoso.com/mcp",
"authType": "ExternalOAuth",
"description": "Contoso Analytics MCP Server for dataset and query operations.",
"publisherName": "Contoso",
"tools": [
{
"name": "list_datasets",
"description": "List all available analytics datasets."
}
],
"remoteScopes": "https://analytics.contoso.com/.default",
"externalOAuth": {
"authorizationUrl": "https://auth.contoso.com/oauth2/authorize",
"tokenUrl": "https://auth.contoso.com/oauth2/token",
"scopes": "https://analytics.contoso.com/.default",
"clientId": "a1b2c3d4-e5f6-7890-abcd-ef1234567890",
"clientSecret": "<your-client-secret>"
},
"apiKey": null
}
EntraOAuth
For servers that authenticate via Microsoft Entra ID:
Bash
a365 develop-mcp register-external-mcp-server \
--server-name "ZavaServer" \
--server-url "https://mcp.zava.com/mcp" \
--publisher "Contoso" \
--description "My external MCP server for document search" \
--auth-type EntraOAuth \
--remote-scopes "https://api.zava.com/.default" \
--tools "tool1,tool2"
JSON
{
"serverName": "ext_OrgDirectory",
"serverUrl": "https://directory.contoso.com/mcp",
"authType": "EntraOAuth",
"description": "Contoso organization directory MCP Server secured with Entra
OAuth.",
"publisherName": "Contoso",
"tools": [
{
"name": "list_users",

--- Page 715 of 2193 ---
"description": "List users in the organization directory."
},
{
"name": "get_user_profile",
"description": "Get the profile of a specific user by ID or UPN."
}
],
"remoteScopes": "api://contoso-directory/.default",
"externalOAuth": null,
"apiKey": null
}
After successful registration, submit the MCP server for admin review in the Microsoft 365 admin
center.
Review and approve tool requests
After a developer registers a tool, such as a remote MCP server, the tool appears in the Microsoft
365 Admin Center for review and approval.

As an admin with the right permissions to manage agent tools in the Microsoft 365 Admin
Center, you can review, approve, or reject these requests to control which tools are available for
use in your organization.

--- Page 716 of 2193 ---
） Important
To complete the review and approval process, you need to meet two requirements:
You need access to the Microsoft 365 admin center's tool page where you manage
agent tools and review MCP server registration requests.
You need the ability to grant tenant-wide consent.
Two roles meet both requirements:
AI admin
Global admin
Use roles with the fewest permissions, and limit the number of users who have admin
permissions. See Least privileged roles by task in Microsoft Entra ID. To learn more about
admin roles and permissions in the Microsoft 365 admin center, see:
About administrator roles in the Microsoft 365 admin center.
Grant tenant-wide admin consent to an application.
To review and approve MCP server registration requests, follow these steps:
1. Sign in to the Microsoft 365 admin center .
2. Select Agents > Tools, and then select the Requests tab.
3. Pending requests display the following details for each server:
Server name
Publisher
Requested by
Requested date
4. Review the server information and declared tools for accuracy and compliance.
5. Select Approve to make the server available in the organizational registry, or Reject to deny
the request.
6. Upon approval, consent to the Microsoft Entra permissions required by the MCP server. The
server becomes available to agent building surfaces only after consent is granted.
７ Note

--- Page 717 of 2193 ---
It can take up to 30 minutes for the MCP server to show up in all the Microsoft Copilot
Studio environments in the tenant once it's approved and consent is granted.
Based on the MCP servers availability, you'll see the following status indicators:
Available - Tool is active and ready for use.
Blocked - Tool is disabled and agents can't access it.
Key governance controls
The following table summarizes the key governance controls:
ﾉ Expand table
Control Description
Approval/Rejection Admin explicitly approves or rejects each BYO MCP server before it can be used.
Server-Level Block Admin can block approved servers at any time; blocked servers are enforced at
runtime.
Tools Snapshot Admin can view the declared tools exposed by each MCP server for transparency.
Runtime Blocked MCP servers can't be invoked at runtime across any client surface.
Enforcement
Use an approved MCP server
After an MCP server has been approved and Microsoft Entra grants consent, you can use it across
supported agent-building surfaces. The following client surfaces currently support invoking
approved BYO MCP servers in preview:
ﾉ Expand table
Client Status
Copilot Studio ✅ Supported
VS Code ✅ Supported
Claude Code ✅ Supported
GitHub Copilot CLI ✅ Supported
As a user in Copilot Studio, take the following steps to invoke the approved BYO MCP server:

--- Page 718 of 2193 ---
1. Go to Copilot Studio in your environment.
2. Create a new custom agent (or open an existing one).
3. Go to the Tools section and select MCP Server.
4. Select the MCP server from the registry.
5. Test the agent by entering a prompt that invokes the MCP server.
７ Note
First-time connection setup: On the initial invocation, you might be prompted to complete
a one-time connection setup. Follow the provided URL to create the required connection,
such as entering your API key for APIKey-based servers. When you finish, return to your
agent and retry the prompt. On successful invocation, you see the MCP server respond with
the correct tool output.
Learn how to invoke approved BYO MCP servers from Claude Code, VS Code, and GitHub Copilot
CLI in the Set up Work IQ MCP Servers for coding agents section of the Work IQ MCP overview.
Monitor and observe MCP server activity
As a member of your organization's security team, use Microsoft Defender advanced hunting to
track and analyze MCP server invocations. This process helps you see which agents invoke which
MCP servers, when the invocations occur, and other relevant metadata that can help detect
unusual or unauthorized usage patterns.
Sample KQL Query — Defender Advanced Hunting:
Kusto
CloudAppEvents
| where ActionType in ( "ExecuteToolByGateway")
| where RawEventData contains "tool name"
This query returns details including agent name, MCP server name, and invocation metadata.
Last updated on 05/12/2026

--- Page 719 of 2193 ---
Agent settings in Microsoft 365
admin center
The Agent settings page in Microsoft 365 admin center provides centralized controls for
managing AI agents across your organization. These settings help administrators enforce security,
compliance, and governance standards while enabling flexibility for collaboration and
productivity.
Overview
The Agent settings page includes the following configuration options:
Agent management rules - Set and run rules to manage or perform actions on agents.
Allowed agent types - Specify which categories of AI agents are permitted for use within
the organization.
Security templates - Create preset policies, rules, and allow lists for new AI agents to ensure
consistency and compliance.
Sharing - Manage who can share AI agents within your organization and define the
methods they can use to share them.
User access - Control which users or groups can interact with AI agents, aligning access with
organizational roles and permissions.
These settings allow you to customize agent behavior, control access, and maintain compliance
with enterprise standards.

--- Page 720 of 2193 ---

Agent management rules
Agent Management Rules in the Microsoft 365 Admin Center (MAC) enable tenant administrators
to apply governance and lifecycle controls across AI agents at scale using bulk administrative
actions.
Rather than requiring you to manually review and take action on agents individually, Agent
Management Rules allow you to:
Identify agents that meet defined conditions
Review impacted agents prior to run
Apply governance actions across affected agents in bulk
This experience helps organizations maintain compliance, ownership accountability, and
deployment consistency across agents while keeping administrators in the control loop.
Supported Rule-Based Bulk Actions
Agent Management Rules currently support the following governance scenarios:
Install Microsoft agents
Reassign ownerless agents created with Agent Builder to manager

--- Page 721 of 2193 ---
Install Microsoft agents
Microsoft first-party (1P) agents are consistently among the most installed and widely used
agents. However, administrators currently lack a scalable way to install these agents proactively
across their tenant.
Using the Install Microsoft (1P) Agents rule, you can do the following:
Identify Microsoft-published agents within the tenant
Review eligible agents prior to installation
Install selected agents for all users through a single bulk action
Microsoft agents appear as installed and are readily available for end-users in the
organization
Reassign ownerless agents created with Agent Builder to manager
Agents may become ownerless when their original creator leaves the organization.
Administrators must currently identify and transfer ownership manually, which can result in
lifecycle governance gaps.
７ Note
This rule is only supported when the agent is created using Microsoft 365 Copilot Agent
Builder.
Using the Reassign Ownerless Agents rule, you can do the following:
Identify agents that no longer have a valid owner
Review ownerless agents prior to reassignment
Transfer ownership using a bulk reassignment action to the manager of the previous owner
based on Microsoft Entra ID hierarchy
Allowed agent types
Allowed agent types allows control of which types of agents users can view and install from the
agent catalog. You can select from the following options:
Allow apps and agents built by Microsoft - Enables users to install agents created by
Microsoft.

--- Page 722 of 2193 ---
Allow apps and agents built by your organization - Enables users to install custom agents
developed within your tenant.
Allow apps and agents built by external publishers - Enables users to install non-Microsoft
agents built by external developers.

 Tip
If you disable an option, agents of that type don't appear for users in the Agent store.
Agents built by Microsoft are visible to users even if the setting is disabled. Users aren't
able to install those agents.
Agent templates
To enhance governance and security for agents, you can apply a template that includes
predefined security policies.
For more information about templates, see Agent templates.
Sharing

--- Page 723 of 2193 ---
Sharing allows defining who can share agents within your organization and how sharing works.
Options include:
All users - All users can share their agents with others in your tenant.
No users - Sharing is disabled at the org level, but users can still share directly with specific
individuals.
Specific users - Restrict broad sharing permissions to designated groups.
Only agents built with Microsoft 365 Copilot Agent Builder are governed by sharing control.

User access
User access allows control of how members of your organization access and install agents.
７ Note
As the administrator, you should use discretion when managing individual agent's
distribution and costs.

--- Page 724 of 2193 ---
To manage access to Copilot agents, follow these steps:
1. Open the Microsoft 365 admin center in your browser.
2. Select Agents > Settings > User access to manage your organization's agents.
3. Select who can access agents within your organization.
The setting has three options:
All users - This option is the default. It means that all users in the organization can
access agents, subject to the existing app policies and user assignments.
No users - This option means that no users in the organization can access agents.
Specific users/groups - This option lets you select specific users or groups in your
organization to have access to agents. While some users in your organization might
have permission to install and use agents from the Agent Registry list, only the users
or groups you select in this setting can use agents.
） Important
Data processed by non-Microsoft services isn't subject to Microsoft agreements.
Review the terms provided by non-Microsoft agent publishers to make sure that you're
familiar the agent's data handling and privacy practices. In addition, consult your
internal policies before allowing access.

--- Page 725 of 2193 ---

4. Select Save to update your Copilot agent settings for your tenant.
Last updated on 05/14/2026

--- Page 726 of 2193 ---
Shadow AI in Microsoft 365 admin
center (Preview)
） Important
This feature is part of Frontier preview program . Frontier connects you directly with
Microsoft's latest AI innovations. Frontier previews are subject to the existing preview terms
of your customer agreements. As these features are still in development, their availability
and capabilities might change over time.
The Shadow AI page in the Microsoft 365 admin center helps IT administrators discover, monitor,
and govern unmanaged AI agents used within their organization.
This preview capability provides a dedicated view for detecting and governing unapproved local
AI agents such as OpenClaw, and enables administrators to take governance actions to maintain
security and compliance.
７ Note
Shadow AI is currently in public preview. Features, supported agents, and behaviors might
change before general availability.
Prerequisites
To use Shadow AI detection and governance, you need:
Microsoft 365 E3 license to view Shadow AI Agents.
At least one of the following roles:
Security Administrator.
AI Administrator.
Global Reader.
Security Reader.
Security Operator.
Reports Reader.
User Experience Success Manager.

--- Page 727 of 2193 ---
Intune Administrator.
Microsoft Intune enrollment for managed Windows devices.
Opt in to the Frontier preview experience in the Microsoft 365 admin center.
What is Shadow AI?
Shadow AI refers to AI-powered tools and agents used by users without IT awareness or
approval. While these tools might improve productivity, unmanaged usage can introduce risks
related to:
Data leakage.
Compliance violations.
Security vulnerabilities.
Lack of auditability and governance.
Common examples of Shadow AI tools include:
Unauthorized AI coding assistants. For example, OpenClaw.
Local agents, MCP servers, and Agentic CLIs.
Browser extensions with AI capabilities.
The Shadow AI experience helps administrators identify and manage these risks without
disrupting legitimate business workflows.
Available features
During public preview, the Shadow AI experience allows admins to detect and block the following
Shadow AI agent:
ﾉ Expand table
Agent Detection Blocking
OpenClaw Available Available
７ Note
Shadow AI detection and blocking currently apply only to managed Windows devices
enrolled with Microsoft Intune.

--- Page 728 of 2193 ---
Access the Shadow AI (Frontier) agent
The Shadow AI (Frontier) page in the Microsoft 365 admin center is a dedicated experience
separate from the All agents page. It focuses exclusively on unmanaged AI agents that require
detection and governance.
To access the Shadow AI (Frontier) page in the Microsoft 365 admin center, follow these steps:
1. Sign in to the Microsoft 365 admin center .
2. From the left navigation bar, select … Show all, and then select Agents to expand it.
3. Under Agents, select Shadow AI (Frontier)
4. The Shadow AI (Frontier) page displays a list of known Shadow AI agents that can be
detected in your environment.
View Shadow AI agent details
1. To view Shadow AI agent details, such as OpenClaw details, select the Shadow AI agent
from the list of agents in the Shadow AI (Frontier) page.
2. The details pane opens for the selected Shadow AI agent. Make sure Details is selected.
From Details you can view information regarding the type of agent. For example:
When it was last scanned.
If there are any Microsoft Intune security policies currently applied.
Enable detection for a Shadow AI agent
To proactively configure detection for a Shadow AI agent before broad adoption, follow these
steps:
1. In the Shadow AI agent details pane, select Security policies.
2. Under Security policies, select Continuously detect managed devices.
3. Select Apply policies to confirm.
View detected devices for a Shadow AI agent
Once detection is enabled for a Shadow AI agent, you can view detected devices in the Shadow
AI agent details pane by following these steps:

--- Page 729 of 2193 ---
1. In the Shadow AI agent details pane, select the Detected devices tab.
2. A list and count of detected devices is displayed.
７ Note
The detected devices list and count are only populated if a detection policy is applied.
After the detection policy is initially enabled, it might take some time for devices to
sync with Microsoft Intune and for the detected devices to populate in the list.
3. In Detected devices, you can search for a specific device name. You can also see the
following device data:
Device name: Name of the device.
Device type: Type of device (Desktop, Virtual Machine, Server, Laptop, etc.)
Operating system: Operating system installed on the device.
Last Intune scan: The last time Microsoft Intune scanned the device.
Blocking a Shadow AI agent
After detection is enabled and the Shadow AI agent is identified in your environment, you can
block it to prevent execution on managed devices. When a Shadow AI agent is blocked, such as
OpenClaw, it blocks common ways of running it by creating a new Microsoft Intune policy that
automatically propagates to all managed Windows devices enrolled in Intune.
To view the policy details, search for the policy name A365 - Block OpenClaw in the article Assign
policies in Microsoft Intune. Depending on how Intune is configured in your organization, this
Intune policy update could take anywhere from 15 minutes up to 8 hours to apply. Full policy
details, including when Intune policy applies, can be found in Intune. Lastly, policies can also be
edited in Intune to add additional controls.
To block a Shadow AI agent, follow these steps:
1. In the Shadow AI agent details pane, select Security policies.
2. Under Security policies, select Block AI agents from <Shadow AI agent name>. For
example, select Block AI agents from OpenClaw.
Last updated on 04/30/2026

--- Page 730 of 2193 ---
Connectors overview
Microsoft 365 Copilot connectors extend the reach of Microsoft 365 Copilot and Microsoft Search
experiences by connecting to data beyond Microsoft 365. Your organization can either index
external data by using synced connectors or connect to data in real time by using federated
connectors. This flexibility ensures that users can securely search and interact with both
enterprise and external data sources within Microsoft 365 apps and Copilot experiences.
Types of Copilot connectors
The following types of Copilot connectors are available:
Synced connectors: Index data into Microsoft Graph for Copilot and search.
Federated connectors: Use a Model Context Protocol (MCP) model to fetch data in real
time, without indexing content into Microsoft 365. For more information, see Federated
connectors overview.
The following table summarizes the key differences between synced connectors and federated
connectors.
ﾉ Expand table
Feature Synced connectors Federated connectors
Data Indexed into Microsoft 365 Fetched live
Access model Organization-level User-level
Setup Admin configures Admin enables; users authenticate
Use cases Broad indexing Sensitive, dynamic, or live data sources
Default connectors Yes Yes
Custom connectors Yes No
Synced connectors
Synced connectors crawl and index content from external sources into Microsoft Graph. This
indexed data is discoverable in Copilot and Microsoft Search experiences. Synced connectors

--- Page 731 of 2193 ---
support organization-level use, with admins configuring and managing connections in the
Microsoft 365 admin center.
Synced connectors have the following key features:
Index external data so it appears in Copilot and Microsoft Search results.
Support connections to cloud-based (SaaS) and on-premises data sources.
Respect source permissions; users only access content for which they have appropriate
permissions.
Microsoft and ecosystem partners provide a wide range of ready-to-use connectors.
You can build custom synced connectors to ingest your business data.
The following video provides an overview of the synced connector setup process.
https://learn-video.azurefd.net/vod/player?id=4f4668c6-445a-4895-8627-
92880eafad68&locale=en-us&embedUrl=%2Fmicrosoft-
365%2Fcopilot%2Fconnectors%2Foverview
For more information, see Set up synced connectors in the admin center.
Federated connectors
Federated connectors use an MCP model to fetch data in real time, without indexing content into
Microsoft 365. Federated connectors are ideal for connecting to live, dynamic, or sensitive data
sources that shouldn't be indexed.
Federated connectors have the following key features:
No indexing required; data remains in the source system.
Connector fetches responses in real time through MCP APIs.
Secure by design; federated access respects source permissions and authentication (OAuth
2.0).
Default federated connectors are provided by Microsoft and appear as Ready in your
connections list in the Microsoft 365 admin center.
Federated connectors are read-only; they can search and fetch content but can't write data
back.
Connector architecture
The following diagram shows how both types of connectors integrate external data into Copilot
and Microsoft Search experiences:

--- Page 732 of 2193 ---
Synced connectors: Data flows from the source, is indexed in Microsoft Graph, and
becomes available in search and Copilot.
Federated connectors: Data remains in the source system and is fetched in real time when
users query Copilot or Search.

How Copilot connectors work
A Copilot connector defines a connection to an external data source and syncs content into
Microsoft 365. It uses the Microsoft Graph connectors API to ingest items into the Microsoft
Graph index. Each item includes content, metadata (like title and URL), and an access control list
(ACL) that enforces permissions.
After the content is ingested:
Unified index - The item becomes part of your organization’s cloud search index. It's full-
text searchable and processed by semantic indexing AI for relevance.
Permission-based filtering - Search and Copilot only show items to users who have access
in the source system.
Continuous sync - Connectors periodically check for changes. New, updated, or deleted
content is reflected in the index. Admins can configure sync frequency and trigger full
crawls as needed.
Microsoft hosts the indexing pipeline in the cloud for most connectors. After setup, the process is
automated. External content is stored securely in your tenant, and users only see what they're
allowed to access.

--- Page 733 of 2193 ---
Prebuilt and custom connectors
Microsoft offers over 100 prebuilt connectors for popular services, including:
File sharing and content management - Box, Dropbox, Google Drive, Confluence,
MediaWiki, network file shares.
Enterprise apps and databases - Salesforce, ServiceNow, Dynamics 365, Azure services,
SQL/Oracle databases, SAP.
Other platforms - Workday, Zendesk, Jira, and more.
To use a prebuilt connector, select the connector in the Microsoft 365 admin center, provide
credentials and configuration details, and the Microsoft connector service handles the rest.
Microsoft or certified partners maintain and update these connectors regularly.
If no prebuilt connector exists for your system, you can build a custom connector by using the
Microsoft 365 Agents Toolkit or the Microsoft Graph connectors API. Building a custom connector
requires a developer to define a schema, register the connection in Microsoft Entra ID, and write
code to pull and push data.
For on-premises sources, you can use the Microsoft Graph connector agent to securely index
local content.
Custom connectors offer flexibility but require maintenance. Use prebuilt connectors when
possible, and reserve custom development for unique or critical sources.
Copilot connectors for people data
Copilot connectors for people data integrate people data into Microsoft 365 applications to
enhance and unify individual profiles. They provide a synchronized view of people data while
keeping the original data authoritative in its source system. These connectors improve identity
cohesion, Copilot response relevance, and data discoverability within Microsoft 365, including
updated profile cards and search capabilities. For more information, see Copilot connectors for
people data.
Microsoft 365 Copilot and connectors
The conversational Copilot Chat experience in Microsoft 365 Copilot, Teams, Outlook, and other
Microsoft 365 apps use connector content to respond to user queries. When users ask questions
or request help, Copilot retrieves data from internal and external sources.

--- Page 734 of 2193 ---
For example, the user query "Give me a summary of the Contoso deal" might return details from
a Salesforce record if that system is connected. Copilot cites the source and provides a quick
summary without requiring the user to open Salesforce.
Connectors make Copilot Chat a more powerful assistant, capable of answering questions
beyond Microsoft 365 content, via the following key features:
Multiturn conversation - Follow-up questions stay in context and can pull from multiple
connectors.
Content previews and links - Users can open referenced items for more detail.
Read-only by default - Copilot Chat can't write back to external systems unless the
experience is extended with action connectors or plugins.
Security enforced - Users only see content they're authorized to access.
Copilot Search and connectors
Microsoft 365 Copilot Search is an AI-powered enterprise search experience that helps users
quickly find relevant information across Microsoft 365 and beyond. Copilot Search acts as a
universal search layer that integrates seamlessly into the Microsoft 365 Copilot app across
desktop, web, and mobile platforms. It automatically includes indexed connector content when
generating responses—no extra setup required.
For example, if a user asks, "How do I file an expense report?", Copilot Search looks across
Microsoft 365 and connected systems. If a relevant page is found in an internal finance wiki (via a
connector), Copilot uses it to generate a concise answer with a citation.
Copilot connectors enhance the Copilot Search experience by providing the following benefits:
Unified indexing - External data is indexed alongside Microsoft 365 content, enabling a
single, comprehensive search experience.
Personalized results - Signals from Microsoft Graph and connector-ingested data help tailor
results based on user roles, behaviors, and organizational relationships.
Copilot extension - A browser add-on that enhances search relevance by incorporating
signals from external work-related sites—without tracking general browsing activity.
The extensive connector ecosystem makes Copilot Search an enterprise-wide knowledge
discovery platform that helps users find what they need, when they need it—no matter where the
data lives.

--- Page 735 of 2193 ---
Microsoft Search and connectors
After connectors are set up, users discover external content through Microsoft Search across
Office.com, SharePoint, Outlook, Teams, Bing (work account), and other apps. Connectors
enhance the Microsoft Search experience with the following features:
Integrated results - External items appear in the All results view alongside internal content.
Each result is labeled with its source (for example, Confluence VPN Access Policy) and opens
in its native app.
Verticals and filters - Admins can create custom search verticals (tabs) for specific
connectors. Users can refine results by source or metadata properties.
Result display - Connector results show a title, snippet, and metadata. Admins can
customize layouts, but the default display is clean and consistent.
Contextual suggestions - Connector content appears in features like Microsoft Editor or
messaging extensions, helping users find and use external knowledge without switching
apps.
Search relevance algorithms rank external and internal results equally, based on query match,
freshness, and user context.
Custom agents and extensibility
Connectors are essential knowledge sources for custom agents built with Copilot Studio or the
Microsoft 365 Agents Toolkit. These agents are tailored to specific domains or tasks, such as IT
help desk or sales support.
Connectors enhance agents for Copilot with the following features:
Domain-specific knowledge - Agents can use Copilot connectors to answer questions from
relevant sources.
Action-taking capability - Agents can be extended with Power Platform connectors or API
plugins to perform tasks (for example, reset passwords, create tickets).
Admins control which connectors and actions each agent can use to ensure governance and
security.
For example, a Sales agent might use a Salesforce connector for data and a Power Platform
connector to update records—all within a conversational interface.
Related content

--- Page 736 of 2193 ---
Connectors gallery
Deploy connectors in the admin center
Set up Microsoft-built synced connectors
Last updated on 05/14/2026

--- Page 737 of 2193 ---
Microsoft 365 admin center usage
reports overview
Check out Microsoft 365 small business help on YouTube.
Microsoft 365 admin center usage reports provide insight into how people in your organization
use Microsoft 365 for business services. For example, you can see who uses a service to the fullest
extent and who barely uses it and might not need a Microsoft 365 license.
７ Note
Usage reports don't include perpetual license models.
Usage reports are generally available for the last 7, 30, 90, and 180 days. For details about specific
report availability, see the individual usage report articles. Data doesn't exist for all reporting
periods right away. The reports typically become available within 24 to 72 hours, but might
sometimes take several days to become available.
Watch: Act on a usage report in Microsoft 365
Check out this and other videos on our YouTube channel .
https://learn-video.azurefd.net/vod/player?id=f8007c63-a8a0-44ee-ab5b-
0ac799333496&locale=en-us&embedUrl=%2Fmicrosoft-365%2Fadmin%2Factivity-
reports%2Factivity-reports
Before you begin
To view usage reports, you must have one of the following permissions:
Global Administrator
） Important
Microsoft recommends that you use roles with the fewest permissions. Using roles with
the fewest permissions helps improve security for your organization. Global
Administrator is a highly privileged role that should be limited to emergency scenarios

--- Page 738 of 2193 ---
when you can't use an existing role. For more information, see About administrator
roles in the Microsoft 365 admin center.
Exchange Administrator
SharePoint Administrator
Usage Summary Reports Reader (with no user details). By default, this role has read access
to user, groups, and other settings in the Microsoft 365 admin center, because the role is
based on Microsoft Entra.
Reports Reader
Teams Administrator
Teams Communications Administrator
User Experience Success Manager (with no user details)
AI Administrator
For more information, see About admin roles and Assign admin roles.
View the Reports dashboard
1. Go to the Microsoft 365 admin center .
2. In the navigation menu, select Reports. If you don't see Reports, select Show all, and then
select Reports.
3. Select Usage .
4. Select View more from the at-a-glance activity card for a service (such as email or
OneDrive) to see the report details page. On that page, different reports for the service are
provided in tabs.

--- Page 739 of 2193 ---

Available usage reports in the Microsoft 365
admin center
Depending on your subscription, the following reports are available in all environments:
ﾉ Expand table
Report Public GCC GCC- DoD Microsoft 365 operated by
High 21Vianet
Active Users Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes
Microsoft browser usage Yes N/A1 N/A1 N/A1 N/A1
Microsoft 365 Copilot readiness Yes N/A1 N/A1 N/A2 N/A2
Microsoft 365 Copilot usage Yes Yes N/A1 N/A2 N/A2
Microsoft 365 Copilot Agent usage Yes N/A1 N/A1 N/A2 N/A2
Microsoft 365 Copilot Chat usage Yes N/A1 N/A1 N/A2 N/A2
Microsoft 365 Copilot credits Yes N/A N/A N/A N/A
Microsoft Copilot Search usage Yes N/A1 N/A1 N/A1 N/A2
Email activity Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes
Email apps usage Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes
Mailbox usage Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes

--- Page 740 of 2193 ---
Report Public GCC GCC- DoD Microsoft 365 operated by
High 21Vianet
Microsoft 365 Groups Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes
Microsoft 365 Apps usage Yes Yes N/A1 N/A1 Yes
Office activations Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes
OneDrive user activity Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes
OneDrive usage Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes
SharePoint site usage Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes
SharePoint activity Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes
SharePoint storage Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes
Microsoft Teams user activity Yes Yes Yes Yes N/A1
Microsoft Teams device usage Yes Yes Yes Yes N/A1
Microsoft Teams team activity Yes Yes Yes Yes N/A1
Viva Engage activity Yes Yes N/A2 N/A2 N/A2
Viva Engage device usage Yes Yes N/A2 N/A2 N/A2
Viva Engage groups activity Yes Yes N/A2 N/A2 N/A2
Forms activity Yes Yes N/A1 N/A1 N/A1
Dynamics 365 Customer Voice activity Yes Yes N/A2 N/A2 N/A2
Skype for Business Online activity N/A2 N/A2 N/A2 N/A2 N/A2
Skype for Business Online conference N/A2 N/A2 N/A2 N/A2 N/A2
organized activity
Skype for Business Online conference N/A2 N/A2 N/A2 N/A2 N/A2
participant activity
Skype for Business Online peer-to-peer N/A2 N/A2 N/A2 N/A2 N/A2
activity
Viva Learning activity Yes N/A2 N/A2 N/A2 N/A2
Viva Insights activity Yes Yes N/A1 N/A1 N/A2
Project activity Yes Yes N/A1 N/A1 N/A2
Visio activity Yes Yes N/A1 N/A1 N/A2

--- Page 741 of 2193 ---
Report Public GCC GCC- DoD Microsoft 365 operated by
High 21Vianet
Viva Goals activity Yes N/A2 N/A2 N/A2 N/A2
N/A1: The report will be released in the future. The Microsoft 365 Roadmap will be updated
before the release.
N/A2: The service isn't available in the environment; hence, there's no plan to release the report.
View licensing information
To see how many licenses you assigned and unassigned, use the following steps:
1. Go to the Microsoft 365 admin center .
2. In the navigation menu, select Billing > Licenses .
To see who is licensed, unlicensed, or a guest, use the following steps:
1. Go to the Microsoft 365 admin center .
2. In the navigation menu, select Users > Active users .
View usage information for a specific user
Use the service reports to research to what extent a specific user is using the service. For example,
to find out how much mailbox storage a specific user consumed, open the Mailbox usage report,
and sort the users by name. If you have thousands of users, export the report to Excel, Power BI,
or use the Microsoft Graph reports API.
You can't generate a report where you enter a user's account and then get a list of which services
they're using and how much.
New users sometimes display as unknown. This problem usually happens because of occasional
delays in creating user profiles.
Show user, group, or site details in usage reports
Reports provide information about your organization's usage data. By default, all reports hide
user information such as usernames, display names, groups, and sites to help companies support
local privacy laws.
By default, your user list looks like the following screenshot:

--- Page 742 of 2193 ---

The organization setting that hides or shows this information applies to the following properties:
ﾉ Expand table
Property Attributes
Properties for user-level in many reports User IDs, Usernames, and User principal names
Properties for OneDrive and SharePoint site usage reports Site IDs and Site URLs
Properties for Microsoft 365 apps Group usage report Group IDs and Group names
Properties for Viva Engage group usage report Group name and Group admin
Properties for Teams team usage report Team names
Other reports, such as some reports in the Microsoft Teams admin center, follow this organization
setting.
Global administrators can update the settings to display concealed information if your
organization's privacy practices allow it.
） Important
Microsoft recommends that you use roles with the fewest permissions. Using roles with the
fewest permissions helps improve security for your organization. Global Administrator is a
highly privileged role that should be limited to emergency scenarios when you can't use an
existing role. For more information, see About administrator roles in the Microsoft 365
admin center.
It takes a few minutes for these changes to take effect. This setting also applies to the Microsoft
365 usage reports in Microsoft Graph and Power BI and to the usage reports in Microsoft Teams
Admin center. Showing identifiable user information is a logged event in the Microsoft Purview
portal audit log.

--- Page 743 of 2193 ---
Use the Microsoft 365 admin center to show user, group, or
site details
1. Go to the Microsoft 365 admin center .
2. In the navigation menu, select Settings. If you don't see Settings, select Show all, and then
select Settings.
3. Select Org Settings .
4. On the Services tab, select Reports.
5. In the Reports panel, select the checkbox next to Display Concealed user, group, and site
names in all reports.
6. Select Save.
Use adminReportSettings to show user, group, or site details
Admins can use an API in all environments to change this setting without needing to visit the
Microsoft 365 admin center. For more information, see adminReportSettings resource type.
Two methods are approved for this API:

The report only contains a Privacy Setting property. For more information about Graph API, see
Use the Microsoft Graph API. You can use the Software Development Kit (SDK) or directly call the
API by using any programming language with network ability, like Graph Explorer.
What happens to usage data when I delete a
user account?
When you delete a user account, Microsoft deletes that user's usage data within 30 days. The
usage chart totals still include deleted users for the periods they were active, but they don't
appear in the User Details table.

--- Page 744 of 2193 ---
However, when you select a particular day (up to 28 days from the current date), the report
shows the user's usage for that day in the User Details table.
How do I interpret the last activity date in user, group,
or site details in the usage reports?
The last activity date in user, group, or site details represents the most recent date on which a
user performed any intentional activity within the app, regardless of the selected time period of
the past 7, 30, 90, or 180 days.
Related content
Microsoft 365 usage analytics (article)
Customize the reports in Microsoft 365 usage analytics (article)
Working with Microsoft 365 usage reports in Microsoft Graph beta (article)
Working with Microsoft 365 usage reports in Microsoft Graph v1.0 (article)
） Note: The author created this article with assistance from AI. Learn more
Last updated on 04/03/2026

--- Page 745 of 2193 ---
Active Users report
The Active Users report provides details about how many product licenses people in your
organization use. You can drill into the report for information about which users are using what
products. This report helps administrators identify underutilized products or users who might
need extra training or information.
For general information about usage reports in the Microsoft 365 admin center, and to see a list
of all available reports, see Microsoft 365 admin center usage reports overview.
View the Active Users report
For information about the roles needed to view usage reports, see "Before you begin" in
Microsoft 365 admin center usage reports overview
1. Go to the Microsoft 365 admin center .
2. In the navigation menu, select Reports. If you don't see Reports, select Show all, and then
select Reports.
3. Select Usage .
4. On the Usage page, under Reports, select Microsoft 365 apps, and then select the Active
users tab.
Interpret the Active users report
The Active Users report displays trends over the last 7, 30, 90, or 180 days. However, if you select
a particular day in the report, the table shows data for up to 28 days from the current date (not
the date the report was generated). The data in each report usually covers up to the last 24 to 48
hours.


--- Page 746 of 2193 ---
The Users chart shows daily active users in the reporting period separated by product. On the
Users chart, the X axis shows the selected reporting time period and the Y axis displays the daily
active users separated and color coded by license type.
The Activity chart shows you daily activity count in the reporting period separated by product.
On the Activity chart, the X axis shows the selected reporting time period and the Y axis displays
the daily activity count separated and color coded by license type.
The Services chart shows the count of users by activity type and service. On the Services activity
chart, the X axis displays the individual services your users are enabled for in the given time
period, and the Y axis is the count of users by activity status, color coded by activity status.
You can filter the series you see on each chart by selecting an item in the legend. Changing this
selection doesn't change the info in the grid table.
To add or remove columns from the report, select Choose columns.
７ Note
If your subscription is operated by 21Vianet in China, you don't see data for Viva Engage.
To export the report data into an Excel .csv file, select Export. This action exports the usage data
of all users and enables you to do simple sorting, filtering, and searching for further analysis.
The table displays a breakdown of the user activities at the per-user level.
ﾉ Expand table
Metric Definition
Username The identifier of the user.
Last active date for Exchange The date the user last used Exchange.
Last active date for OneDrive The date the user last used OneDrive.
Last active date for SharePoint The date the user last used SharePoint.
Last active date for Viva Engage The date the user last used Viva Engage.
Last active date for Microsoft Teams The date the user last used Microsoft Teams.
Exchange licenses Whether an Exchange license is assigned to the user.
OneDrive licenses Whether a OneDrive license is assigned to the user.

--- Page 747 of 2193 ---
Metric Definition
SharePoint licenses Whether a Viva Engage license is assigned to the user.
Viva Engage licenses Whether a OneDrive license is assigned to the user.
Microsoft Teams licenses Whether a Microsoft Teams license is assigned to the user.
Deleted date The date the user was deleted.
License assign date for Exchange The date an Exchange license was assigned to the user.
License assign date for OneDrive The date a OneDrive license was assigned to the user.
License assign date for SharePoint The date a SharePoint license was assigned to the user.
License assign date for Viva Engage The date a Viva Engage Exchange license was assigned to the
user.
License assign date for Microsoft The date a Microsoft Teams license was assigned to the user.
Teams
７ Note
By default, user-specific information like usernames, display names, groups, and sites is
hidden in usage reports. To learn how to display this information in usage reports, see Show
user, group, or site details in usage reports.
） Note: The author created this article with assistance from AI. Learn more
Last updated on 05/19/2026

--- Page 748 of 2193 ---
Microsoft Browser usage report
The Microsoft Browser usage report shows if users access Microsoft 365 online services through
Microsoft Edge. This report insight can help you migrate your organization to Microsoft Edge.
Usage reporting is based on an aggregate count of users in your organization that sign in to their
Microsoft 365 account and use the Microsoft Edge browser to access Microsoft 365 services.
For general information about usage reports in the Microsoft 365 admin center, and to see a list
of all available reports, see Microsoft 365 admin center usage reports overview.
View the Microsoft Browser usage report
For information about the roles needed to view usage reports, see "Before you begin" in
Microsoft 365 admin center usage reports overview
1. Go to the Microsoft 365 admin center .
2. In the navigation menu, select Reports. If you don't see Reports, select Show all, and then
select Reports.
3. Select Usage .
4. On the Usage page, under Reports, select Microsoft browser.
Interpret the Microsoft browser usage report
The report displays trends over the last 7, 30, 90, or 180 days. If you select a particular day in the
report, the per user data table updates to display users' usage on that day. However, this feature
only works for the most recent 28 days.


--- Page 749 of 2193 ---
The Daily active users chart shows the daily user count for Microsoft Edge when used to access
to Microsoft 365 services.
The Active Users chart shows the total number of users accessing Microsoft 365 services while
using Microsoft Edge over the selected time period.
To add or remove columns from the report, select Choose columns.
To export the report data into an Excel .csv file, select Export. This action exports the usage data
of all users and enables you to do simple sorting, filtering, and searching for further analysis.
The following table contains definitions of the metrics available in the report.
ﾉ Expand table
Metric Definition
Username The email address of the user who connected to Microsoft 365 services using
Microsoft Edge.
Used Microsoft Displays a check mark if the Microsoft 365 services user connected with Microsoft
Edge Edge.
７ Note
By default, user-specific information like usernames, display names, groups, and sites is
hidden in usage reports. To learn how to display this information in usage reports, see Show
user, group, or site details in usage reports.
） Note: The author created this article with assistance from AI. Learn more
Last updated on 05/19/2026

--- Page 750 of 2193 ---
Microsoft 365 Copilot Agents usage report
The Microsoft 365 Copilot Agent usage report helps you track how agents are used in Microsoft
365 Copilot Chat and Microsoft 365 apps - Word, Excel, and PowerPoint. You can see which
agents both licensed and unlicensed Microsoft 365 Copilot users use across Declarative,
SharePoint, and Custom engine agents. These agents include agents built by your organization,
Microsoft, and Microsoft Partners.
You can view usage within an hour from when users interact with agents. The report includes key
metrics such as:
Total active users and agents
Summary and daily time series
Active usage per user, per agent, and per agent-user pair
For general information about usage reports in the Microsoft 365 admin center, and to see a list
of all available reports, see Microsoft 365 admin center usage reports overview.
View the Microsoft 365 Copilot Agents usage report
For information about the roles needed to view usage reports, see "Before you begin" in
Microsoft 365 admin center usage reports overview
1. Go to the Microsoft 365 admin center .
2. In the navigation menu, select Reports. If you don't see Reports, select Show all, and then
select Reports.
3. Select Usage .
4. On the Usage page, under Reports, select Microsoft 365 Copilot, and then select Agents.
Interpret the Microsoft 365 Copilot Agents
usage report
Use the Agents usage report to see the usage of agents in your organization that your
organization, Microsoft, or Microsoft Partners built. These agents include agents that an admin
approves, and agents that users create through agent builder and share with users in your
organization. Admins can manage agents in the same way as they manage any other app in the

--- Page 751 of 2193 ---
Copilot Control system section of the Microsoft 365 admin center. For more information, see
Manage agents for Microsoft 365 Copilot in the Microsoft 365 admin center.
At the top of the report, you can filter by different periods. You can view the agent report over
the last 7 or 30 days.
７ Note
The data for declarative agents in Agent usage preview report is available as of August 19,
2025. For SharePoint agents and Custom engine agents, it's available as of November 11,
2025.

Total active users shows how many unique users in your organization - whether they have a
Microsoft 365 Copilot license or not - used agents in Microsoft 365 Copilot Chat during the
selected time period. This count includes agents created by your organization, Microsoft, or
Microsoft partners.
Active users (licensed) shows how many unique users in your organization who had a
Microsoft 365 Copilot license used agents in Microsoft 365 Copilot Chat during the selected
time period.
Active users (unlicensed) shows how many unique users in your organization, who didn't
have a Microsoft 365 Copilot license and used agents in Microsoft 365 Copilot Chat during
the selected time period.
Total active agents shows how many unique apps with an agent element in that app with at
least one active user over the selected time period. This count includes agents created by

--- Page 752 of 2193 ---
your organization, including agents both admin approved and shared by users in your
organization, Microsoft built agents, and agents built by Microsoft partners.
An active user of an agent is a user who asks an agent a question and receives a response. Users
interact with agents in the following ways:
By selecting the agent from the side panel in Microsoft 365 Copilot Chat and at-mentioning
the agent in the chat experience.
By selecting the Open navigation panel button in the top corner of Microsoft 365 Copilot in
Word, Excel, or PowerPoint.
To learn more about managing and enabling agents in your organization, see Manage agents for
Microsoft 365 Copilot in the Microsoft 365 admin center.
Users by license type

The definition of active users (licensed and unlicensed) is the same as provided earlier.
You can switch between Summary view and Trend view.
Summary view shows how many users with a Microsoft 365 Copilot license used agents
compared with users who don't have a Microsoft 365 Copilot license, over the selected time
frame.
Trend view shows daily agent usage over the selected time frame, comparing how many
users with a Microsoft 365 Copilot license used agents compared with users who don't have
a Microsoft 365 Copilot license.

--- Page 753 of 2193 ---

Users by creator type
Shows how many users actively used an agent, grouped by who created the agent.

The definition of active users is the same as provided earlier. The Creator type tells you who built
the agent. The following table describes the different types:
ﾉ Expand table
Creator Description
type value
User Agents created by individuals in your organization using tools like agent builder. These
agents aren't listed in the organization-wide catalog but users can use them for themselves,
or share them via a link with others in the same organization.
Your org Agents created by individuals in your organization using tools like Microsoft 365 Agents
Toolkit or Microsoft Copilot Studio, and admin-approved for broader use across your

--- Page 754 of 2193 ---
Creator Description
type value
organization.
Microsoft Agents built by Microsoft
Microsoft Agent built by Microsoft partners and admin-approved for use in your organization.
partner
Any The agent is any of the listed creator types, such as User, Your organization, Microsoft, or
Microsoft Partner.
You can switch between Summary view and Trend view.
Summary view shows how many users used an agent where the agent was one of the
Creator types described earlier, regardless of whether the user had a Microsoft 365 Copilot
license, over the selected time frame.
Trend view shows daily usage of agents - how many users used an agent each day where
the agent was one of the Creator types described earlier, regardless of whether the user had
a Microsoft 365 Copilot license, over the selected time frame.

Agents by creator type
Shows how many agents users in your organization used, grouped by who created the agent.

--- Page 755 of 2193 ---

The definition of active agents and Creator type is the same as provided earlier.
You can switch between Summary view and Trend view.
Summary view shows how many agents users in your organization used where the agent
was one of the Creator types described earlier, regardless of whether the users had a
Microsoft 365 Copilot license, over the selected time frame.
Trend view shows daily usage of agents - how many agents users in your organization used
each day where the agent was one of the Creator types described earlier, regardless of
whether the user had a Microsoft 365 Copilot license, over the selected time frame.

--- Page 756 of 2193 ---

User details table

ﾉ Expand table
Metric Definition
Username The user's principal name.
Display name The full name of the user.
Number of agents The number of distinct agents the user used for the selected time period.
used
Agent responses Total responses from all agents used during the selected time period.
received
Last activity date The most recent date the user used an agent, regardless of the selected time period
(UTC) of past 7 or 30 days.

--- Page 757 of 2193 ---
７ Note
By default, user-specific information like usernames, display names, groups, and sites is
hidden in usage reports. To learn how to display this information in usage reports, see Show
user, group, or site details in usage reports.
Agent details table

ﾉ Expand table
Metric Definition
Agent ID An agent is an element of an app. The ID is the app identifier generated by Microsoft.
Agent name The name of the app as present in the app manifest.
Creator type Indicates who built the agent. The following list defines the values:
User are agents created by individuals in your organization using tools like agent
builder. These agents aren't listed in the organization-wide catalog, but users can
use the agents for themselves, or share agents via a link with others in the same
organization.
Your org are agents created by individuals in your organization using tools like
Microsoft 365 Agents Toolkit, Microsoft Copilot Studio, and admin-approved for
broader use across your organization.
Microsoft are agents built by Microsoft.
Microsoft partner are agent built by Microsoft partners and admin-approved for
use in your organization.
Any are agents from any of the listed creator types.
Active users The number of unique users in your organization with a Microsoft 365 Copilot license who
(licensed) used the agent for the selected time period.
Active users The number of unique users in your organization without a Microsoft 365 Copilot license
(unlicensed) who used the agent for the time period selected.

--- Page 758 of 2193 ---
Metric Definition
Responses sent The total agent responses sent to all users during the selected period.
to users
Last activity The date when the agent was last used by anyone in your organization.
date (UTC)
Users and agent details table

ﾉ Expand table
Metric Definition
Agent ID An agent is an element of an app. The ID is the app identifier generated by Microsoft.
Agent name The name of the app as present in the app manifest.
Creator type Indicates who built the agent. The following list defines the values:
User are agents created by individuals in your organization using tools like agent
builder. These agents aren't listed in the organization-wide catalog, but users can use
the agents for themselves, or share agents via a link with others in the same
organization.
Your org are agents created by individuals in your organization using tools like
Microsoft 365 Agents Toolkit, Microsoft Copilot Studio, and admin-approved for
broader use across your organization.
- Microsoft are agents built by Microsoft.
Microsoft partner are agent built by Microsoft partners and admin-approved for use
in your organization.
Any are agents from any of the listed creator types.
Username The user's principal name.
Responses The total agent responses sent to all users during the selected period.
sent to users
Last activity The date when the agent was last used by anyone in your organization.

--- Page 759 of 2193 ---
Metric Definition
date (UTC)
７ Note
By default, user-specific information like usernames, display names, groups, and sites is
hidden in usage reports. To learn how to display this information in usage reports, see Show
user, group, or site details in usage reports.
FAQ
Why don't I see the Export button in the details table anymore?
The Export button is temporarily removed from tables in the Details section. The export
functionality will be restored soon.
What is the difference between the Agent report and the Agent
usage report in Microsoft 365 Copilot, and which report should
I use?
The new Agent usage report provides a broader view than the one in Microsoft 365 Copilot. The
original report only includes agents built by your organization or users (using Agent Builder), and
only for licensed Copilot users. The new report includes usage by both licensed and unlicensed
users, and covers all agent creators, including Microsoft and Microsoft partners. It also includes
line-level details at the per-user, per-agent, and per-user and agent level. Over time, this new
report replaces the current Agent usage report in Microsoft 365 Copilot.
Why does this report only show the past 7 and 30 days, while
other usage reports also show the past 90 and 180 days?
The agent report is in preview and doesn't yet include the past 90 and 180 days but will add this
capability in a future update.
What is "Last activity detected"?
Last activity detected shows the most recent date and timestamp (in UTC) when user activity
generated agent usage.

--- Page 760 of 2193 ---
Are agents created from Microsoft Copilot Studio and Teams
Toolkit included?
Yes. The following agents are the agents for which usage is reported:
Agents created in Microsoft Copilot Studio by users in your organization and approved by
an admin.
Agents created in Teams Toolkit by users in your organization and approved by an admin.
Agents created by users through agent builder for users that have this feature enabled and
shared with other users in your organization.
Why is the total active user count less than the sum of licensed
and unlicensed active users?
The sum of active users without a license and active users with a license might exceed the total
active users if you assigned or removed licenses during the selected timeframe.
How can I view the username or display name if
they're hidden?
By default, the usage report anonymizes the username and display name. Global administrators
can change settings to reveal or conceal these values.
） Important
Microsoft recommends that you use roles with the fewest permissions. Using roles with the
fewest permissions helps improve security for your organization. Global Administrator is a
highly privileged role that should be limited to emergency scenarios when you can't use an
existing role. For more information, see About administrator roles in the Microsoft 365
admin center.
To learn how to change the setting to show the username and display name information, see
Show user, group, or site details in usage reports.
Are SharePoint agents used in Teams included in the
usage report?
No. SharePoint agents used in Teams aren't currently included in the usage metrics in the report.
For more information, see Share an agent from SharePoint in Teams - Microsoft Support .

--- Page 761 of 2193 ---
Why is the "Total active users" count smaller than the sum of
unlicensed and licensed user counts for my organization?
You might see this discrepancy if a user's Microsoft 365 Copilot license changes during the
selected time period. For example, the user might be assigned a Copilot license and later remove
it within that same period.
） Note: The author created this article with assistance from AI. Learn more
Last updated on 05/21/2026

--- Page 762 of 2193 ---
Microsoft 365 Copilot Chat usage report -
Microsoft 365 admin center
The Microsoft 365 Copilot Chat usage report provides insights into active usage of Microsoft 365
Copilot Chat. The report includes total active users, average daily active users, total prompts
submitted, and average prompts submitted per user. You can view usage insights as totals and
trends for the past 7, 30, 90, or 180-day periods. The report also shows the last activity date,
prompts submitted, and active days per user, anonymized by default. To view all reports, see
Microsoft 365 Reports in the admin center overview.
７ Note
The report currently supports only users without a Microsoft 365 Copilot license who
interact with Copilot Chat in Teams, Outlook, m365.cloud.microsoft/chat, Microsoft 365
Copilot (app), Microsoft Edge, Word, Excel, PowerPoint, and OneNote.
For general information about Microsoft 365 Usage reports and to see a list of all available
reports, see Microsoft 365 admin center usage reports overview.
View the Microsoft 365 Copilot Chat usage report
For information about the roles needed to view usage reports, see Microsoft 365 admin center
usage reports overview.
1. Go to the Microsoft 365 admin center .
2. In the navigation menu, select Reports. If you don't see Reports, select Show all, and then
select Reports.
3. Select Usage .
4. On the Usage page, under Reports, select Microsoft 365 Copilot, and then select Copilot
Chat.
Interpret the Microsoft 365 Copilot Chat usage report
Use this report to see the usage of Microsoft 365 Copilot Chat in your organization. At the top,
filter by different periods. You can view the Microsoft 365 Copilot Chat report over the last 7, 30,
90, or 180 days.

--- Page 763 of 2193 ---
You can view aggregated numbers for Microsoft 365 Copilot Chat active users, average daily
active users, total prompts submitted, and average prompts submitted per user:

Active users shows the total number of users who submitted at least one prompt to
Microsoft 365 Copilot Chat during the selected period.
Average daily active users indicates the average number of people using Microsoft 365
Copilot Chat per day over the selected period.
Total prompts submitted refers to the overall number of prompts users sent to Microsoft
365 Copilot Chat during the selected period.
Average prompts submitted per user represents the mean number of prompts each active
user sent to Microsoft 365 Copilot Chat during the selected period.
In Recommendations, the recommended action card highlights where admins can update
settings to pin Copilot to make it easier for users in the organization to find and use Copilot in
apps like Teams and Outlook.

You see the following summary charts in this report as default view:

--- Page 764 of 2193 ---

Summary view shows you the total usage of Microsoft 365 Copilot Chat of the time frame.
Trend view shows you the daily time trend of Microsoft 365 Copilot Chat of the time frame.
You can switch between Summary view and Trend view. When switching to Trend view, you can
select one or multiple entry points in the dropdown list to see daily usage or compare among
entry points.

The following table shows app details for active Microsoft 365 Copilot Chat users:
ﾉ Expand table
App Details More information
Edge Microsoft 365 Copilot Chat was used from the sidebar Copilot - Microsoft
in the Microsoft Edge browser. Edge
Microsoft 365 Copilot Microsoft 365 Copilot Chat was used in the desktop, Overview of
(app) mobile, or web version of the Microsoft 365 Copilot Microsoft 365
(app), including the following entry points: Copilot Chat
Microsoft365.com, Office.com, M365Copilot.com,
Microsoft 365 desktop app, Microsoft 365 mobile app,
M365.cloud.microsoft

--- Page 765 of 2193 ---
App Details More information
Teams Microsoft 365 Copilot Chat was used in Teams. Manage Copilot
Chat in Teams
Outlook Microsoft 365 Copilot Chat was used in Outlook. Manage Copilot
Chat on the web, in
the Microsoft 365
Copilot app, and in
Outlook
m365.cloud.microsoft/chat Microsoft 365 Copilot Chat was used in Manage Microsoft
m365.cloud.microsoft/chat. 365 Copilot Chat
Word Microsoft 365 Copilot Chat was used in Word. Overview of
Microsoft 365
Copilot Chat
Excel Microsoft 365 Copilot Chat was used in Excel. Edit Overview of
mode in Excel is not currently included in active usage Microsoft 365
metrics. Support for this mode may be added in a Copilot Chat
future release.
PowerPoint Microsoft 365 Copilot Chat was used in PowerPoint. Overview of
Edit mode in PowerPoint is not currently included in Microsoft 365
active usage metrics. Support for this mode may be Copilot Chat
added in a future release.
OneNote Microsoft 365 Copilot Chat was used in PowerPoint. Overview of
Microsoft 365
Copilot Chat
You can export the report data into an Excel .csv file by selecting the ellipses and then Export in
the top-right corner.
You can view a table that shows each active user who accessed Microsoft 365 Copilot Chat over
the past 180 days.

--- Page 766 of 2193 ---

To export the report data into an Excel .csv file, select Export. This action exports the Microsoft
365 Copilot Chat usage data of all users and enables you to do simple sorting, filtering, and
searching for further analysis.
User last activity table
ﾉ Expand table
Item Description
Username The user's principal name.
Display name The full name of the user.
Prompts submitted The total number of prompts this user submitted to Microsoft 365 Copilot
Chat during the specified period.
Active days The total number of days the user submitted prompts to Microsoft 365
Copilot Chat within the specified timeframe.
Last activity date (UTC) The most recent date on which the user sent a message to Microsoft 365
Copilot Chat in Teams, Outlook, m365.cloud.microsoft/chat, Microsoft
Edge, the Microsoft 365 Copilot (app), Word, Excel, PowerPoint, or
OneNote. This date remains fixed even if the timeframe of the report is
changed.
Last activity date of Teams The most recent date on which the user sent a message to Microsoft 365
(UTC) Copilot Chat in Teams. This date remains fixed even if the timeframe of the
report is changed.

--- Page 767 of 2193 ---
Item Description
Last activity date of Outlook The most recent date on which the user sent a message to Microsoft 365
(UTC) Copilot Chat in Outlook. This date remains fixed even if the timeframe of
the report is changed.
Last activity date of The most recent date on which the user sent a message to Microsoft 365
m365.cloud.microsoft/chat Copilot Chat in m365.cloud.microsoft/chat. This date remains fixed even if
(UTC) the timeframe of the report is changed.
Last activity date of Microsoft The most recent date on which the user sent a message to Microsoft 365
365 Copilot (app) (UTC) Copilot Chat in Microsoft 365 Copilot (app). This date remains fixed even if
the timeframe of the report is changed.
Last activity date of Edge (UTC) The most recent date on which the user sent a message to Microsoft 365
Copilot Chat from the sidebar in the Microsoft Edge browser. This date
remains fixed even if the timeframe of the report is changed.
Last activity date of Word (UTC) The most recent date on which the user sent a message to Microsoft 365
Copilot Chat in Word. This date remains fixed even if the timeframe of the
report is changed.
Last activity date of Excel (UTC) The most recent date on which the user sent a message to Microsoft 365
Copilot Chat in Excel. This date remains fixed even if the timeframe of the
report is changed.
Last activity date of PowerPoint The most recent date on which the user sent a message to Microsoft 365
(UTC) Copilot Chat in PowerPoint. This date remains fixed even if the timeframe
of the report is changed.
Last activity date of OneNote The most recent date on which the user sent a message to Microsoft 365
(UTC) Copilot Chat in OneNote. This date remains fixed even if the timeframe of
the report is changed.
By default, user-specific information like usernames, display names, groups, and sites is hidden in
usage reports. To learn how to display this information in usage reports, see Show user, group, or
site details in usage reports.
FAQ
Does this report include only the Copilot Chat usage for users
without a Microsoft 365 Copilot license in the organization?
Yes. To view Copilot Chat usage for Microsoft 365 Copilot licensed users in the organization, see
the Microsoft 365 Copilot usage report in the Microsoft 365 admin center.
） Note: The author created this article with assistance from AI. Learn more

--- Page 768 of 2193 ---
Last updated on 05/12/2026

--- Page 769 of 2193 ---
Microsoft 365 Copilot credits report
The Microsoft 365 Copilot credits report helps you manage metered consumption costs for
Microsoft 365 Copilot Chat. This report gives you visibility into credits used for your Microsoft
365 Copilot pay-as-you-go billing policies. It includes key metrics such as:
Total credits used
Cumulative and daily time series
Credits used per user, per agent, per billing policy, and per agent-user pair
To learn more about meters, see Meters for Microsoft 365 Copilot pay-as-you-go for IT admins.
For general information about usage reports in the Microsoft 365 admin center, and to see a list
of all available reports, see Microsoft 365 admin center usage reports overview.
View the Copilot credits report
For information about the roles needed to view usage reports, see "Before you begin" in
Microsoft 365 admin center usage reports overview
1. Go to the Microsoft 365 admin center .
2. In the navigation menu, select Reports. If you don't see Reports, select Show all, and then
select Reports.
3. Select Usage .
4. On the Usage page, under Reports, select Microsoft 365 Copilot, and then select Credits.
Interpret the Copilot Credits report
After you set up pay-as-you-go for Microsoft 365 Copilot Chat, either in the Microsoft 365 admin
center or the Power Platform admin center , and enable agent usage in your organization, you
see a new report that includes metrics for credits used.
To help you mitigate overspending, the report includes alerts when users in your organization use
more than 2,000 credits. To learn more, see Using agents in Microsoft 365 Copilot Chat and the
overview on enabling agents, which explains how agents are billed.
You can filter the report by different time periods. You can view the Copilot credits report over
the last 7 or 30 days.

--- Page 770 of 2193 ---

７ Note
During preview, the report displays a maximum of 30 days of Copilot credits history. In
addition, usage information from before May 3, 2025, isn't available in the report.
Credits used
The Credits used metric shows the total credits used from interactions by users in your
organization who don't have a Microsoft 365 Copilot license and are interacting with agents in
Copilot Chat that spin the Copilot Studio meter during the selected time period. You can view
usage within an hour from when users interact with a metered agent.
The number of credits used depends on the design of the agent, how often users interact with it,
and the features the agent uses. Each interaction with an agent might use multiple message
types simultaneously. For example, an agent grounded in a tenant graph could use 12 credits (10
credits for tenant graph-grounding, and two credits for generative answers) to respond to a
single complex prompt from a user.
Alerts
The Alerts card is visible in the report when one or more users consume more than 3,000 credits
in the past 30 days.
Select View Copilot credits details to see the user list and export it to CSV. If users consume
2,000 to 3,000 credits, a similar alert appears.

--- Page 771 of 2193 ---

７ Note
For preview, the alerts remain visible in the report for up to seven days and disappear after if
there are no new users who crossed the threshold.
Copilot credits usage report details
Use the Microsoft 365 Copilot Credits usage report to view user details, agent details, and user
and agent details.
Users

ﾉ Expand table
Metric Definition
Username The user's principal name.
Display name The full name of the user.
Past seven days The total credits used over the past seven days, including today.
Past 30 days The total credits used over the past 30 days, including today.
Last activity date (UTC) The latest date the user had activity with a metered agent in Copilot chat.

--- Page 772 of 2193 ---
７ Note
By default, user-specific information like usernames, display names, groups, and sites is
hidden in usage reports. To learn how to display this information in usage reports, see Show
user, group, or site details in usage reports.
Agents

ﾉ Expand table
Metric Definition
Agent ID An agent is an element of an app. The ID is the app identifier generated by Microsoft.
Agent name The name of the app as present in the app manifest.
Past seven days The total credits used by users who used the agent over the past seven days, including
today.
Past 30 days The total credits used by users who used this agent over the past 30 days including
today.
Last activity date The date when the agent was last used by users in your org who don't have Microsoft
(UTC) 365 Copilot license.
Billing policies

--- Page 773 of 2193 ---

ﾉ Expand table
Metric Definition
Billing Policy ID The ID is a Microsoft-generated identifier linked to the billing policy that you created for
specific users in a security group.
Past seven days The total credits used by members of the security group linked to the billing policy over
the past seven days, including today.
Past 30 days The total credits used by members of the security group linked to the billing policy over
the past 30 days, including today.
Last activity date The most recent date on which a member of the security group linked to the billing
(UTC) policy consumed credits.
Users and agents


--- Page 774 of 2193 ---
ﾉ Expand table
Metric Definition
Agent ID An agent is an element of an app. The ID is the app identifier generated by Microsoft.
Agent name The name of the app as present in the app manifest.
Username The user's principal name.
Billing Policy ID The ID is a Microsoft-generated identifier linked to the billing policy that you created
for specific users in a security group.
Past seven days The total credits used by the user who used this agent over the past seven days,
including today.
Past 30 days The total credits used by the user who used this agent over the past 30 days, including
today.
Last activity date The date when the agent was last used by users in your org who don't have Microsoft
(UTC) 365 Copilot license.
７ Note
By default, user-specific information like usernames, display names, groups, and sites is
hidden in usage reports. To learn how to display this information in usage reports, see Show
user, group, or site details in usage reports.
７ Note
The report shows data up to today, but it doesn't automatically update if there's recent
usage. To view the latest data, manually refresh the report.
FAQ
Will I see consumption in this report if I configured the billing
policy in the Power Platform admin center?
Yes. You can set up the pay-as-you-go billing policy in the Microsoft 365 admin center or Power
Platform admin center. If you configure pay-as-you-go, and users without a Microsoft 365
Copilot license use metered agents in Copilot Chat, the data appears in the report.
What is "Last activity detected?"

--- Page 775 of 2193 ---
Last activity detected is the date and timestamp of the most recent prompt or user activity that
generated the credits consumed.
How can I test that pay-as-you-go is correctly configured and
working properly?
Have a user who qualifies for pay-as-you-go use one of the following three agents: "Learning
Coach," "Writing Coach," or "Career Coach." Have the user submit a simple prompt, like "What
can you do?" This prompt consumes about 12 credits and is visible in the Copilot Credits Report.
How do I find a Billing policy name from the Billing policy ID?
1. In the Microsoft 365 admin center , go to Copilot > Billing & usage.
2. On the Billing policies tab, select a billing policy, and then select Details. You see the Policy
name and Billing Policy ID.
How can I view the billing policy ID if it's hidden?
By default, the Copilot credits report anonymizes the Billing Policy ID, just like the username and
display name. Global administrators can change the settings to show or hide the Billing Policy ID.
） Important
Microsoft recommends that you use roles with the fewest permissions. Using roles with the
fewest permissions helps improve security for your organization. Global Administrator is a
highly privileged role that should be limited to emergency scenarios when you can't use an
existing role. For more information, see About administrator roles in the Microsoft 365
admin center.
To learn how to change the setting to show the Username and Display name information, see
Show user, group, or site details in usage reports.
７ Note
Changes to this hidden data setting affect the username, display name, and Billing Policy ID.
） Note: The author created this article with assistance from AI. Learn more

--- Page 776 of 2193 ---
Last updated on 05/21/2026

--- Page 777 of 2193 ---
Microsoft 365 Copilot readiness report
The Microsoft 365 Copilot readiness report helps you identify which users are technically eligible
for Copilot and streamline your organization's rollout. From the report, you can assign licenses
and monitor usage of Microsoft 365 apps that Copilot integrates best with. The report is available
within 72 hours, and once available, the usage data in the report can have up to a maximum of
72 hours latency.
For general information about usage reports in the Microsoft 365 admin center, and to see a list
of all available reports, see Microsoft 365 admin center usage reports overview.
View the Microsoft 365 Copilot Readiness and
usage report
For information about the roles needed to view usage reports, see "Before you begin" in
Microsoft 365 admin center usage reports overview
1. Go to the Microsoft 365 admin center .
2. In the navigation menu, select Reports. If you don't see Reports, select Show all, and then
select Reports.
3. Select Usage .
4. On the Usage page, under Reports, select Microsoft 365 Copilot, and then select Copilot.
5. On the report page, you can view Readiness on the first tab. Select the Usage tab to view
adoption and usage metrics.
Interpret the Readiness section in the Microsoft 365
Copilot report
Use the Microsoft 365 Copilot readiness report to see how ready your organization is to adopt
Microsoft 365 Copilot. The Readiness section shows your data over the past 28 days.
You can see the following summary charts in this report:

--- Page 778 of 2193 ---

Total Prerequisite Licenses: The number is the sum of all users who have at least one license
assigned to them or who can be assigned a license. To learn more about the license types
eligible for Copilot, see Licensing requirements for Microsoft 365 Copilot.
Users on an eligible update channel: This number is the sum of all users enrolled in Current
Channel or Monthly Enterprise Channel for app updates in your organization. These users
can be assigned a Copilot license.

Assigned Licenses: This number is the sum of all users who are already assigned a Copilot
license in your organization.
Available Licenses: This number is the sum of all users who don't have a Copilot license
assigned, and should be prioritized first.

Recommended action cards highlight important actions to take to prepare your organization for
Copilot. These actions include moving users to a monthly app update channel and assigning
available Copilot licenses.
The last recommended action card promotes the Microsoft Copilot Dashboard, where you can
deliver insights to your IT leaders to explore Copilot readiness, adoption, and effect in Viva
Insights.

--- Page 779 of 2193 ---

This graph shows the sum of users who could benefit the most from Copilot based on where
Copilot provides the most value in day-to-day scenarios. By default, it's sorted by descending
order across all rows by column Suggested candidate for Copilot.

The user table provides an at-a-glance view of which users are assigned a Copilot license,
whether their devices are configured correctly, and whether they're using a Microsoft 365 app
that has Copilot enabled.
You can also export the report data into an Excel .csv file by selecting the Export link. This action
exports the Microsoft 365 Copilot readiness data of all users with any engagement on Teams
meetings, Teams chat, and Outlook email for Office docs in the past 30 days. By exporting this
data, you can do simple sorting, filtering, and searching for further analysis.
To ensure data quality, the system performs daily data validation checks for the past three days
and fills any detected gaps. You might notice differences in historical data during the process.
User activity table
ﾉ Expand table
Metric Definition
User name The user's principal name.
Has Copilot license Yes/No field indicating if the user has a Copilot license assigned to them.
been assigned

--- Page 780 of 2193 ---
Metric Definition
Uses eligible Yes/No field indicating if devices are configured to get the latest or monthly updates.
update channel
Uses Teams Indicates whether the user attended at least one meeting using Teams in the past 30
Meetings days.
Uses Teams chat Indicates whether the user participated in at least one chat using Teams in the past 30
days.
Uses Outlook Email Indicates whether the user sent at least one email using Outlook in the past 30 days.
Uses Office docs Indicates whether the user collaborated on at least one document or file using
OneDrive or SharePoint in the past 30 days.
Suggested Indicates the top 25% of nonlicensed users based on their Microsoft 365 app usage
candidate for over the prior month. For more information, see Extra details for the "Suggested
Copilot candidate for Copilot" column.
７ Note
By default, user-specific information like usernames, display names, groups, and sites is
hidden in usage reports. To learn how to display this information in usage reports, see Show
user, group, or site details in usage reports.
Extra details for the "Suggested candidate for Copilot" column
The Suggested candidate for Copilot column in the Microsoft 365 Copilot Readiness report
helps organizations identify users who might benefit most from Microsoft 365 Copilot as part of
initial rollouts and pilot programs. Each week, the feature flags the top 25% of nonlicensed users
within an organization. The flagged users are based on their consistent usage of the Microsoft
365 applications where Copilot adds value, such as Microsoft Teams and Outlook. Admins can use
this information to prepare a data-driven licensing plan for their Copilot rollout. The following list
contains key details about this feature:
The feature analyzes the Microsoft 365 usage across the users that aren't assigned Copilot
licenses each week. It then flags the top 25% of them as suggested candidates. This
selection is based on app usage intensity in applications where Microsoft 365 Copilot
provides value, such as Microsoft Outlook, Teams, and Word.
The feature is only available to customers who purchase Microsoft 365 Copilot licenses.
The feature doesn't rank users within the selected 25% group; there's no individual stack
ranking among suggested candidates.

--- Page 781 of 2193 ---
Each week, the feature reevaluates the user base and suggests the top 25% based on usage
metrics for the preceding 28-day period. Users who are assigned a Microsoft 365 Copilot
license are removed from consideration. Over time, every eligible user in the organization
can be flagged as a suggested candidate for Copilot.
To support interpretability, several of the inputs to the suggestion model are also shown in
the Copilot readiness details table. Users that actively used Teams meetings, Teams chats,
Outlook emails, or Office docs over the preceding 28 day period have a "Yes" value in the
columns corresponding with each of these applications.
The intended purpose of this capability is to support organizations with the rollout of
Microsoft 365 Copilot by highlighting users who are most likely to quickly benefit from its
capabilities based on their consistent usage of Microsoft 365 apps. This data isn't intended
to be used to evaluate employee performance.
Related content
Microsoft 365 Copilot service description (article)
Set up Microsoft 365 Copilot (article)
Microsoft 365 Copilot Adoption (resources)
） Note: The author created this article with assistance from AI. Learn more
Last updated on 05/21/2026

--- Page 782 of 2193 ---
Microsoft 365 Copilot Search usage report
７ Note
The Copilot Search usage report is currently in public preview. Deployment processes and
functionality might change before this report becomes generally available. During the public
preview phase, you might notice some unexpected behaviors. These observations help
Microsoft improve the product before general availability.
The Microsoft 365 Copilot Search usage report provides a detailed view of both organizational
and individual user activity with Copilot Search across platforms. It includes trend charts for active
usage and search activity at the organization level, and insights into each user's search behavior
during a selected timeframe. The report reflects user behaviors within one hour. With these
insights, you can easily track Copilot Search usage trends and make informed decisions about
how to drive further adoption within your organization.
For general information about usage reports in the Microsoft 365 admin center, and to see a list
of all available reports, see Microsoft 365 admin center usage reports overview.
View the Copilot Search usage report
For information about the roles needed to view usage reports, see "Before you begin" in
Microsoft 365 admin center usage reports overview
1. Go to the Microsoft 365 admin center .
2. In the navigation menu, select Reports. If you don't see Reports, select Show all, and then
select Reports.
3. Select Usage .
4. On the Usage page, under Reports, select Microsoft 365 Copilot, and then select Copilot
Search.
Interpret the Copilot Search usage report
At the top, filter by different timeframes. You can view the Copilot Search usage report over the
last 7, 30, 90, or 180 days.
You can view several metrics for Copilot Search usage:

--- Page 783 of 2193 ---

The following table lists the features included for active users of Copilot Search:
ﾉ Expand table
Copilot app Features What counts as active usage
Microsoft 365 Search A licensed Microsoft 365 Copilot user completes at least one of the following
Copilot app actions:
1. Types in a query, keyword, or natural language to find information
about files, people, answers, and other content and lands in the results
page.
2. Types in a query and selects or engages with query suggestions in the
search box.
3. Selects an item from the options displayed in the search box
dropdown list
To learn more about the Copilot Search feature, see Microsoft 365 Copilot Search.
Active users shows the total number of users with a Microsoft 365 Copilot license in your
organization who completed a Copilot Search query within the Microsoft 365 Copilot app
over the selected timeframe.
Average daily active users shows the average daily number of individuals who actively used
Copilot Search over the selected timeframe.
Total searches shows the number of distinct search queries made in Copilot Search by
active users in the selected timeframe, consistent with the set of behaviors summarized in
the active users definition.
Average searches per user shows the average number of distinct search queries made by
active users in the selected timeframe.
You see the following trend view charts in this report as default view:

--- Page 784 of 2193 ---

Active users trend view shows you the daily trend view of active usage of Copilot Search over the
selected time frame. When you hover over a specific day on this chart, you see the total number
of active users for that day. This interactive feature helps you quickly understand daily usage
patterns with Copilot Search across your organization.

Total searches trend view shows a daily trend of searches made by active users over the selected
timeframe. When you hover over a specific day on this chart, you see the total number of
searches for that day. This interactive feature helps you quickly understand daily engagement
patterns with Copilot search across your organization.
User activity table

--- Page 785 of 2193 ---
ﾉ Expand table
Metric Definition
User ID The user's principal ID
Display name The user's full name
Total searches Total number of distinct search queries the active user made during the selected
timeframe
Last activity date The date when the user was most recently active in Copilot Search
(UTC)
７ Note
By default, user-specific information like usernames, display names, groups, and sites is
hidden in usage reports. To learn how to display this information in usage reports, see Show
user, group, or site details in usage reports.
The User activity table includes user-level details about each active Copilot Search user, including
their total searches and their last activity date in Copilot Search.
To export the report data into an Excel .csv file, select Export. This action exports the usage data
of all users and enables you to do simple sorting, filtering, and searching for further analysis.
FAQ
What user actions count as active usage of Copilot Search?
A user is active in Copilot Search if they have a Microsoft 365 Copilot license and perform an
intentional search action by using the Copilot Search feature. Simply opening the Copilot Search
page doesn't count as active usage. The user is only counted as active if they interact with the
search box by submitting a query, searching for people, searching for a file, or searching for
content.
What platforms does Copilot Search active usage include?
Copilot Search active usage includes user activity within the Microsoft 365 Copilot app across
desktop, web, and mobile platforms. The report counts any intentional search action that you
perform on any of these platforms during the selected timeframe toward active usage.

--- Page 786 of 2193 ---
What's the scope of the user-level table?
The user-level table in the report shows all users who were licensed for Microsoft 365 Copilot at
any point over the past 180 days, even if the user removed the license or never had any Copilot
active usage.
） Note: The author created this article with assistance from AI. Learn more
Last updated on 05/21/2026

--- Page 787 of 2193 ---
Microsoft 365 Copilot usage report
The Microsoft 365 Copilot usage report provides a summary of how users adopt, retain, and
engage with Microsoft 365 Copilot and its associated enabled apps, including agent usage. For
Copilot activity on a given day, the report typically becomes available within 72 hours of the end
of that day (in UTC).
For general information about usage reports in the Microsoft 365 admin center, and to see a list
of all available reports, see Microsoft 365 admin center usage reports overview.
View the Microsoft 365 Copilot usage report
For information about the roles needed to view usage reports, see "Before you begin" in
Microsoft 365 admin center usage reports overview
1. Go to the Microsoft 365 admin center .
2. In the navigation menu, select Reports. If you don't see Reports, select Show all, and then
select Reports.
3. Select Usage .
4. On the Usage page, under Reports, select Microsoft 365 Copilot, and then select Copilot.
5. On the report page, select the Usage tab to view adoption and usage metrics.
Interpret the Microsoft 365 Copilot usage report
At the top, you can filter by different timeframes. You can view the Microsoft 365 Copilot report
over the last 7, 30, 90, or 180 days.
You can view several numbers for Microsoft 365 Copilot usage, which highlight the enablement
number and the adoption of the enablement:

Enabled Users shows the total number of unique users in your organization with Microsoft
365 Copilot licenses over the selected timeframe.

--- Page 788 of 2193 ---
Active Users shows the total number of enabled users in your organization who tried a
user-initiated Microsoft 365 Copilot feature, in one or more apps in Microsoft 365 over the
selected timeframe.
Active users rate shows the number of active users in your organization divided by the
number of enabled users.
In Recommendations, the recommended action card highlights Microsoft Copilot Dashboard,
where you can deliver insights to your IT leaders to explore Copilot readiness, adoption, and
impact in Viva Insights.
Active agent users shows the total number of unique Microsoft 365 Copilot users in your
org who used agents built by your org (including admin-approved agents and agents
created via agent builder and shared with users in your org).
７ Note
Agent usage is available starting November 1, 2024, and is currently limited to agents built
by your org. Usage of agents built by Microsoft and Microsoft Partners will be introduced in
the coming months.
Total prompts submitted shows the total number of prompts users sent to Microsoft 365
Copilot Chat during the selected time frame.
Average prompts submitted per user represents the mean number of prompts each active
user sent to Microsoft 365 Copilot Chat during the selected timeframe.
In the Adoption section, Adoption by app shows enabled users and active users of Copilot in
Microsoft 365 apps.
You see the following summary charts in this report as default view:

--- Page 789 of 2193 ---

The definitions for Enabled Users and Active Users metrics are the same as provided earlier.
Summary view shows the total usage of Microsoft 365 Copilot apps of the time frame.
Trend view shows the daily time trend of Microsoft 365 Copilot apps of the time frame.
When switching to Trend view, you can select one product in the dropdown list to see daily
usage.

In the Prompts submitted section, Summary view shows the total number of prompts users
submitted to Microsoft Copilot Chat over the selected time frame.

--- Page 790 of 2193 ---

Trend view shows the daily trend of prompts submitted in Microsoft 365 Copilot over the
selected time frame.

Copilot Chat adoption shows enabled users and total usage of Copilot Chat and split usage
between Copilot Chat (work) and Copilot Chat (web).

--- Page 791 of 2193 ---

Agent adoption shows active users of agents in Microsoft 365 Copilot for the selected period.
Only usage of agents created by your org, including both admin-approved agents and agents
shared by users in your org, are included in this chart.
Summary view shows the total number of agent users in Microsoft 365 Copilot over the selected
time frame.


--- Page 792 of 2193 ---
Trend view shows the daily trend of active agent users in Microsoft 365 Copilot over the selected
time frame.

The following table lists the features for active users of Copilot apps:
ﾉ Expand table
Copilot Features How to use Learn more
app about the
feature
Microsoft Copilot Chat (web) Type a message into the chat Copilot -
Edge window or select a suggested Microsoft Edge
prompt and submit. Or select
Ask Copilot in the right-click of
contextual web info.
Copilot Chat (work) Type a message into the chat Copilot -
window or select a suggested Microsoft Edge
prompt and submit.
Microsoft Copilot Chat (web) Type a message into the chat Get started with
365 Copilot window or select a suggested Microsoft 365
(app) prompt and submit. Copilot Chat
Copilot Chat (work) Type a message into the chat Get started with
window or select a suggested Microsoft 365
prompt and submit. Copilot Chat
Outlook Summarize an Outlook email thread In an email thread, select Summarize an
Summarize by Copilot or email thread with

--- Page 793 of 2193 ---
Copilot Features How to use Learn more
app about the
feature
Summarize at the top of the Copilot in
email thread. (User experience is Outlook -
slightly different among web, Microsoft
Windows, Mac, or mobile.) Support
Generate an Outlook email draft Select Copilot icon from the Draft an email
toolbar, select Draft with message with
Copilot, type a prompt in Copilot in
Copilot box, and submit. (User Outlook -
experience is slightly different Microsoft
among web, Windows, Mac, or Support
mobile.)
Coach Select the Copilot icon in the Email coaching
email message, and then select with Copilot in
Coaching by Copilot. Copilot Outlook -
reviews email and offers Microsoft
suggestions on improving the Support
tone, clarity, and reader
sentiment. (User experience is
slightly different among web,
Windows, Mac, or mobile.)
Copilot Chat (work) Go to the left side of Outlook Get started with
web app, select Copilot from the Microsoft 365
apps list, type a prompt, and Copilot Chat
send. This feature is included in
the Outlook app level and all up
Microsoft 365 active usage
count effective August 28, 2024.
Copilot Chat (web) Go to the left navigation of Get started with
Outlook app, select Copilot from Microsoft 365
the apps list and select Web Copilot Chat
option at the top of the chat
pane, type a prompt into the
chat window or select a
suggested prompt and submit.
This feature is included in the
Outlook app level and all up
Microsoft 365 active usage
count effective July 01, 2025.

--- Page 794 of 2193 ---
Copilot Features How to use Learn more
app about the
feature
App Chat Go to top right corner of Frequently asked
Outlook web app, select Copilot questions about
placed next to settings option, Copilot in
type a prompt, and send. This Outlook
feature is included in the
Outlook app level and all up
Microsoft 365 active usage
count effective August 17, 2024.
Teams Summarizing key points during Summarizing key discussion Get started with
meetings points during meeting using Copilot in
Copilot in Microsoft Teams. Microsoft Teams
meetings -
Microsoft
Support
Summarize chats and channel Type a prompt or select a Use Copilot in
conversations prompt from More prompts in Microsoft Teams
Copilot compose box in a chat chat and channels
or channel and submit. - Microsoft
Support
Rewrite and adjust messages Write a message in message Rewrite and
box, select Rewrite/Adjust in adjust your
Copilot beneath the message messages with
box to rewrite or adjust the Copilot in
whole or specific selection of the Microsoft Teams -
message. Microsoft
Support
Intelligent Recap Select the Recap tab in the Get started with
meeting chat for Teams calendar Microsoft 365
event and view the AI Notes Copilot in Teams
section after the meeting ends - Microsoft
(meeting is recorded and Support
transcribed).
Interpreter Turn on Interpreter under the Interpreter in
More icon and listen to a Microsoft Teams
meeting in one of the selected meetings and
languages. calls
Facilitator Turn on Facilitator under the Facilitator in
More icon and activate AI- Microsoft Teams
generated notes; or interact with meetings
Facilitator or Facilitator-

--- Page 795 of 2193 ---
Copilot Features How to use Learn more
app about the
feature
generated content during or
after a meeting.
Copilot Chat (work) Go to Chat on the left side of Get started with
Teams, select Copilot from the Microsoft 365
top of your Teams chat list, type Copilot in Teams
a prompt, and send. - Microsoft
Support
Copilot Chat (web) Go to the left navigation of Get started with
Teams application, select Copilot Microsoft 365
from the apps list and select Copilot in Teams
Web option at the top of the - Microsoft
chat pane, type a prompt into Support
the chat window or select a
suggested prompt and submit.
This feature is included in the
Teams app level and all up
Microsoft 365 active usage
count effective July 01, 2025.
Word All Copilot in Word features are To learn more
automatically included in the about Copilot in
Microsoft 365 Copilot usage report. Word features,
Usage of any Copilot in Word feature refer to Welcome
counts towards the Active users to Copilot in
metric and is indicated in the per- Word - Microsoft
user Last activity date (UTC). Support .
NOTE: Edit with Word counts
towards "Prompts submitted in
Copilot Chat (work)," but Edit with
Excel and Edit with PowerPoint
don't.
Excel All Copilot in Excel features are To learn more about Copilot in
automatically included in the Excel features, refer to Get
Microsoft 365 Copilot usage report. started with Copilot in Excel -
Usage of any Copilot in Excel feature Microsoft Support .
counts towards the Active users
metric and is indicated in the per-
user Last activity date (UTC).
PowerPoint All Copilot in PowerPoint features are To learn more
automatically included in the about Copilot in
Microsoft 365 Copilot usage report. PowerPoint
Usage of any Copilot in PowerPoint features, refer to

--- Page 796 of 2193 ---
Copilot Features How to use Learn more
app about the
feature
feature counts towards the Active Welcome to
users metric and is indicated in the Copilot in
per-user Last activity date (UTC). PowerPoint -
Microsoft
Support .
OneNote All Copilot in OneNote features are To learn more
automatically included in the about Copilot in
Microsoft 365 Copilot usage report. OneNote
Usage of any Copilot in OneNote features, refer to
feature counts towards the Active Welcome to
users metric and is indicated in the Copilot in
per-user Last activity date (UTC). OneNote -
Microsoft
Support .
Loop All Copilot in Loop features are To learn more
automatically included in the about Copilot in
Microsoft 365 Copilot usage report. Loop features,
Usage of any Copilot in Loop feature refer to Get
counts towards the Active users started with
metric and is indicated in the per- Microsoft 365
user Last activity date (UTC). As of Copilot in Loop -
December 11, 2025, user views of Microsoft
Loop documents generated by the Support .
Facilitator feature in Teams meetings
are included in active usage for the
Loop app and all-up Microsoft 365
Copilot usage.
７ Note
Active users of Word, Excel, and PowerPoint data is incomplete before January 25, 2024.
The following table lists the features for active users of agents:
ﾉ Expand table
Feature How to use Learn more about the
feature
UX interactions that End users can interact with agents in two ways: Learn about Getting
count towards agent started with agents for
1. By at-mentioning the agent in a chat experience

--- Page 797 of 2193 ---
Feature How to use Learn more about the
feature
usage 2. By selecting the agent from the side panel in Microsoft 365 Copilot
Copilot Chat or from the Open navigation panel
button in the top corner of Copilot in Word or
PowerPoint.
An active user of an agent is a user who asks an agent a
question and receives a response.
） Important
The metrics displayed in the Microsoft 365 Copilot usage report come from data that
classified as required service data. Optional diagnostic data isn't required for comprehensive
information, but this requirement might change in the future. Learn more about required
service data.
In the Adoption section, you might see a recommendation card:

To learn more about using organizational messages for Microsoft 365 Copilot, see Microsoft 365
features adoption using organizational messages.
You can export the report data into an Excel .csv file by selecting the ellipses and then Export in
the top corner of the chart.
You can view a table list to show each Microsoft 365 Copilot enabled user's last activity date
among Microsoft 365 Copilot apps.

--- Page 798 of 2193 ---

To add or remove columns from the report, select Choose columns.

--- Page 799 of 2193 ---

To export the report data into an Excel .csv file, select Export. This action exports the usage data
of all users and enables you to do simple sorting, filtering, and searching for further analysis.
To ensure data quality, the system performs daily data validation checks for the past three days
and fills any gaps it detects. You might notice differences in historical data during the process.

--- Page 800 of 2193 ---
User last activity table
ﾉ Expand table
Metric Definition
User name The user's principal name.
Display name The full name of the user.
Prompts submitted Total number of prompts a user submitted in Copilot across all in-scope host
(any app) applications during the selected timeframe.
Copilot Chat The total number of prompts this user submitted to Copilot Chat (work) during the
(work) prompts selected timeframe.
submitted
Copilot Chat (web) The total number of prompts this user submitted to Copilot Chat (web) during the
prompts submitted selected timeframe.
Active Days The total number of days the user submitted prompts to Microsoft 365 Copilot Chat
within the selected timeframe.
Last activity date The most recent date the user sent a message to Microsoft 365 Copilot Chat in Teams,
(UTC (Universal Outlook, m365.cloud.microsoft/chat, Microsoft Edge, the Microsoft 365 Copilot (app),
Time Code)) Word, Excel, PowerPoint, or OneNote. This date remains fixed even if the timeframe of
the report is changed.
Last activity date The latest date the user had activity in Microsoft Teams Copilot, including any of the
of Teams Copilot intentional activities, regardless of the selected timeframe of past 7, 30, 90, or 180
(UTC) days.
Last activity date The latest date the user had activity in Word Copilot, including any of the intentional
of Word Copilot activities, regardless of the selected timeframe of past 7, 30, 90, or 180 days.
(UTC)
Last activity date The latest date the user had activity in Excel Copilot, including any of the intentional
of Excel Copilot activities, regardless of the selected timeframe of past 7, 30, 90, or 180 days.
(UTC)
Last activity date The latest date the user had activity in PowerPoint Copilot, including any of the
of PowerPoint intentional activities, regardless of the selected timeframe of past 7, 30, 90, or 180
Copilot (UTC) days.
Last activity date The latest date the user had activity in Outlook Copilot, including any of the
of Outlook Copilot intentional activities, regardless of the selected timeframe of past 7, 30, 90, or 180
(UTC) days.
Last activity date The latest date the user had activity in OneNote Copilot, including any of the
of OneNote intentional activities, regardless of the selected timeframe of past 7, 30, 90, or 180
Copilot (UTC) days.

--- Page 801 of 2193 ---
Metric Definition
Last activity date The latest date the user had activity in Loop Copilot, including any of the intentional
of Loop Copilot activities, regardless of the selected timeframe of past 7, 30, 90, or 180 days.
(UTC)
Last activity date The latest date the user had activity in Copilot Chat (work), including any of the
of Copilot Chat intentional activities, regardless of the selected timeframe of past 7, 30, 90, or 180
(work) (UTC) days.
Last activity date The latest date the user had activity in Copilot Chat (web), including any of the
of Copilot Chat intentional activities, regardless of the selected timeframe of past 7, 30, 90, or 180
(web) (UTC) days.
Last activity date The most recent date the user had activity in Copilot Chat in an entry point Microsoft
of Microsoft 365 365 App, including any of the intentional activities, regardless of the selected
App (UTC) timeframe of past 7, 30, 90, or 180 days.
Last activity date The most recent date the user had activity in Copilot Chat in entry point Microsoft
of Microsoft Edge Edge, including any of the intentional activities, regardless of the selected timeframe
(UTC) of past 7, 30, 90, or 180 days.
Last activity date The latest date the user had activity with an agent built by your org, regardless of the
of any agent (UTC) selected timeframe of past 7, 30, 90, or 180 days.
７ Note
By default, user-specific information like usernames, display names, groups, and sites is
hidden in usage reports. To learn how to display this information in usage reports, see Show
user, group, or site details in usage reports.
FAQ
How is a user considered active in Microsoft 365 Copilot usage?
A user is active in a given app if they perform an intentional action for an AI-powered capability.
For example, if a user selects the Copilot icon in the Word ribbon to open the Copilot chat pane,
this action doesn't count towards active usage. However, if the user interacts with the chat pane
by submitting a prompt, this action counts towards active usage.
What's the difference between the user activity table and
audit log?

--- Page 802 of 2193 ---
Audit log data that powers Microsoft Purview solutions, such as Data Security Posture
Management for AI (previously called AI Hub), is built for data security and compliance purposes.
It provides comprehensive visibility into Copilot interactions for these use cases. For example, it
helps to discover data oversharing risks or to collect interactions for regulatory compliance or
legal purposes. It's not, however, intended to be used as the basis for Copilot usage reporting.
Any aggregated metrics that you build on top of this data, such as "prompt count" or "active user
count," might not be consistent with the corresponding data points in the official Copilot usage
reports provided by Microsoft. Microsoft can't provide guidance about how to use audit log data
as the basis for usage reporting, nor can we guarantee that aggregated usage metrics built on
top of audit log data matched similar usage metrics reported in other tools.
To access accurate information on Microsoft 365 Copilot usage, use one of the following reports:
the Microsoft 365 Copilot usage report in the Microsoft 365 Admin Center or the Copilot
Dashboard in Viva Insights.
What's the scope of the user-level table?
The user-level table in the report shows all users who were licensed for Microsoft 365 Copilot at
any point over the past 180 days, even if the user later removed the license or never had any
Copilot active usage.
I assigned the Microsoft 365 Copilot license to users, but why is
the 'last activity date' for users empty in rare cases?
Based on system constraints, some users might not have a 'last activity date' in the user-level
table of the report under the following conditions:
1. The user used Microsoft 365 Copilot within a short time window (less than 24 hours) after
the Microsoft 365 Copilot license was assigned.
2. The user later had no other Microsoft 365 Copilot usage up to the date on which the report
is viewed.
Why is the 'Last activity date of Word, Excel, PowerPoint,
OneNote, or Outlook Copilot (UTC)' sometimes blank or
newer than the actual date, even when users recently used
Copilot features?
A known limitation might cause this problem. For various reasons, uploading client events data
for Copilot features in Word, Excel, PowerPoint, OneNote, and Outlook can be delayed. For

--- Page 803 of 2193 ---
example, if end users disconnect from the internet immediately after taking a Copilot action, the
data upload is delayed.
How do the numbers in this report compare to what is shown
in the Microsoft Copilot Dashboard in Viva Insights?
The data in these reports is based on the same underlying definitions of active usage, but the
population of users included in the analysis and the timeframe displayed might differ. To learn
more, see Use Microsoft Copilot Dashboard advanced features with a Viva Insights subscription.
） Note: The author created this article with assistance from AI. Learn more
Last updated on 05/21/2026

--- Page 804 of 2193 ---
Microsoft Dynamics 365 Customer Voice
activity report
The Microsoft Dynamics 365 Customer Voice activity report provides insight into the activity of
every user licensed to use it by looking at their interactions with it. The report also helps you
understand the level of collaboration going on by looking at the number of Pro Surveys created
and Pro Surveys to which the users responded.
For general information about usage reports in the Microsoft 365 admin center, and to see a list
of all available reports, see Microsoft 365 admin center usage reports overview.
View the Dynamics 365 Customer Voice activity report
For information about the roles needed to view usage reports, see "Before you begin" in
Microsoft 365 admin center usage reports overview
1. Go to the Microsoft 365 admin center .
2. In the navigation menu, select Reports. If you don't see Reports, select Show all, and then
select Reports.
3. Select Usage .
4. On the Usage dashboard homepage, on the Dynamics 365 Customer Voice card, select
View more.
Interpret the Dynamics 365 Customer Voice
activity report
The report displays trends over the last 7, 30, 90, or 180 days. However, if you select a particular
day in the report, the table shows data for up to 28 days from the current date, not the date the
report was generated.

--- Page 805 of 2193 ---

To add or remove columns from the report, select Choose columns.

To export the report data into an Excel .csv file, select Export. This action exports the usage data
of all users and enables you to do simple sorting, filtering, and searching for further analysis.
The following table contains definitions of the metrics available in the report.
ﾉ Expand table
Metric Definition
Username The email address of the user who performed the activity on Microsoft Forms.
Last activity date The latest date the user performed a form activity for the selected date range. To see
(UTC) activity that occurred on a specific date, select the date directly in the chart.

--- Page 806 of 2193 ---
Metric Definition
This action filters the table to display file activity data only for users who performed
the activity on that specific day.
Number of surveys The number of surveys that the user created.
created
Number of survey The number of responses from responders to whom the survey was distributed.
responses
７ Note
By default, user-specific information like usernames, display names, groups, and sites is
hidden in usage reports. To learn how to display this information in usage reports, see Show
user, group, or site details in usage reports.
） Note: The author created this article with assistance from AI. Learn more
Last updated on 05/19/2026

--- Page 807 of 2193 ---
Email activity report
The Email activity report provides a high-level view of email traffic within your organization. Use
the Email activity report to understand the trends and per-user level details of the email activity
within your organization.
７ Note
The Email activity report is only available for mailboxes that are associated with users who
have licenses.
For general information about usage reports in the Microsoft 365 admin center, and to see a list
of all available reports, see Microsoft 365 admin center usage reports overview.
View the Email activity report
For information about the roles needed to view usage reports, see "Before you begin" in
Microsoft 365 admin center usage reports overview
1. Go to the Microsoft 365 admin center .
2. In the navigation menu, select Reports. If you don't see Reports, select Show all, and then
select Reports.
3. Select Usage .
4. On the Usage page, under Reports, select Exchange.
5. On the report page, select the Email activity tab.
Interpret the Email activity report
The Email activity report displays trends over the last 7, 30, 90, or 180 days. However, if you select
a particular day in the report, the table shows data for up to 28 days from the current date (not
the date the report was generated). The data in each report usually covers up to the last 24 to 48
hours.
You can view your users' email activity by looking at the Activity and Users charts.

--- Page 808 of 2193 ---

The Activity chart helps you understand the trend of the amount of email activity going on in
your organization. You can see the split of email send, email read, email received, meeting
created, or meeting interacted activities. On the Activity chart, the Y axis is the count of activity of
the type email sent, email received, email read, meeting created, and meeting interacted.
The User chart helps you understand the trend of the number of unique users who are
generating the email activities. You can look at the trend of users performing email sending,
email reading, email receiving, meeting creating, or meeting interacting activities. On the Users
activity chart, the Y axis is the users performing activity of the type email sent, email received,
email read, meeting created, or meeting interacted.
The X axis on both charts is the selected date range for this specific report.
You can filter the series you see on either chart by selecting an item in the legend.
To add or remove columns from the report, select Choose columns.

--- Page 809 of 2193 ---

To export the report data into an Excel .csv file, select Export. This action exports the usage data
of all users and enables you to do simple sorting, filtering, and searching for further analysis.
The following table shows a breakdown of the email activities at the per-user level. This data
shows all users that have an Exchange product assigned to them and their email activities.
ﾉ Expand table
Metric Definition
Username The email address of the user.
Display name The full name of the user.
Deleted Refers to the user whose current state is deleted, but was active during some part of
the reporting period of the report.
Deleted date The date the user was deleted.
Last activity date The last time the user performed a read or send email activity.
Send actions The number of times an email send action was recorded for the user.

--- Page 810 of 2193 ---
Metric Definition
Receive actions The number of times an email received action was recorded for the user.
Read actions The number of times an email read action was recorded for the user.
Meeting created The number of times a meeting request send action was recorded for the user.
actions
Meeting interacted The number of times a meeting request accept, tentative, decline, or cancel action
actions was recorded for the user.
Product assigned The products that are assigned to this user.
７ Note
By default, user-specific information like usernames, display names, groups, and sites is
hidden in usage reports. To learn how to display this information in usage reports, see Show
user, group, or site details in usage reports.
） Note: The author created this article with assistance from AI. Learn more
Last updated on 05/21/2026

--- Page 811 of 2193 ---
Enable developers to use app analytics in
the Developer Portal for Teams
In the Microsoft 365 admin center, the App usage for custom app setting allows enterprise
app developers to view and use app analytics for company apps in the Developer Portal.
Developer Portal is a tool for managing apps and agents built for Copilot and Microsoft 365
apps. By viewing custom app usage, enterprise developers can see the number of active users
and get other insights. Admins can allow app usage for your custom apps to be shown in the
Developer Portal.

To enable the setting, in the Microsoft 365 Admin Center, sign in with the Teams admin role or
Global admin role, and under Org settings, select Developer Portal for Teams and then enable
the setting in the flyout pane as shown in the following image:

--- Page 812 of 2193 ---
） Important
Microsoft recommends that you use roles with the fewest permissions. Using roles with
the fewest permissions helps improve security for your organization. Global Administrator
is a highly privileged role that should be limited to emergency scenarios when you can't
use an existing role. For more information, see About administrator roles in the Microsoft
365 admin center.
How will this setting affect admins and their
organization?
By default, the App usage for custom apps setting is disabled. When you enable this setting,
enterprise developers are provided with better insights into the performance and user
engagement of custom apps, helping them make informed decisions about app improvements.
If this setting is disabled, developers may be prevented from understanding app usage and
other insights, causing disruptive change to their workflow.
What actions are needed from admins?

--- Page 813 of 2193 ---
To enable enterprise developers to view app usage, enable the setting in Microsoft 365 admin
center -> Settings -> Org settings -> Services -> Developer Portal for Teams. Developers
should be able to take advantage of the new experience right away.
What do developers need to do?
Developers can configure access to analytics for company apps by following the guidance in
Analyze app usage in Developer Portal.
Related articles
Analyze App Usage in Developer Portal
Microsoft Teams app usage report
Last updated on 10/30/2025

--- Page 814 of 2193 ---
Exchange email app usage report
The Exchange email app usage report provides details about how many email apps connect to
Exchange Online. You can view the version information of Outlook apps that users are using. This
information helps you follow up with those users who are using unsupported versions to install
supported versions of Outlook.
For general information about usage reports in the Microsoft 365 admin center, and to see a list
of all available reports, see Microsoft 365 admin center usage reports overview.
View the email apps report
For information about the roles needed to view usage reports, see "Before you begin" in
Microsoft 365 admin center usage reports overview
1. Go to the Microsoft 365 admin center .
2. In the navigation menu, select Reports. If you don't see Reports, select Show all, and then
select Reports.
3. Select Usage .
4. On the Usage page, under Reports, select Exchange, and then select the Email app usage
tab.
Interpret the Exchange email app usage report
The report displays trends over the last 7, 30, 90, or 180 days. However, if you select a particular
day in the report, the table shows data for up to 28 days from the current date, not the date the
report generated. The data in each report usually covers up to the last 24 to 48 hours.

--- Page 815 of 2193 ---

The Users chart shows the number of unique users that connected to Exchange Online by using
any email app. The Y axis is the total count of unique users that connected to an app on any day
of the reporting period. The X axis is the number of unique users that used the app for that
reporting period.
The Apps chart shows the number of unique users by app over the selected time period. The Y
axis is the total count of unique users who used a specific app during the reporting period. The X
axis is the list of apps in your organization.
The Versions chart shows the number of unique users for each version of Outlook in Windows.
The Y axis is the total count of unique users using a specific version of Outlook desktop. If the
report can't resolve the version number of Outlook, the quantity shows as Undetermined. The X
axis is the list of apps in your organization.
You can filter the series you see on the charts by selecting an item in the legend. You might not
see all the items in the list in the columns until you add them.
To add or remove columns from the report, select Choose columns.

--- Page 816 of 2193 ---

To export the report data into an Excel .csv file, select Export. This action exports the usage data
of all users and enables you to do simple sorting, filtering, and searching for further analysis.
The following table contains definitions of the metrics available in the report.
ﾉ Expand table
Metric Definition
Username The name of the email app's owner.
Last activity date The latest date the user read or sent an email
message.
Mac mail, Mac Outlook, Outlook, Outlook mobile, and Examples of email apps you might have in your
Outlook on the web organization.
７ Note

--- Page 817 of 2193 ---
By default, user-specific information like usernames, display names, groups, and sites is
hidden in usage reports. To learn how to display this information in usage reports, see Show
user, group, or site details in usage reports.
） Note: The author created this article with assistance from AI. Learn more
Last updated on 05/19/2026

--- Page 818 of 2193 ---
Exchange Web Services (EWS) usage report
The Exchange Web Services (EWS) usage report displays the SOAP actions used by each
application calling EWS in your organization. It also shows the successful-call volume for each
SOAP action. This information enables you to coordinate with the application owners to ensure
they're preparing for the EWS deprecation in October 2026 .
For general information about usage reports in the Microsoft 365 admin center, and to see a list
of all available reports, see Microsoft 365 admin center usage reports overview.
View the EWS usage report
For information about the roles needed to view usage reports, see "Before you begin" in
Microsoft 365 admin center usage reports overview
1. Go to the Microsoft 365 admin center .
2. In the navigation menu, select Reports. If you don't see Reports, select Show all, and then
select Reports.
3. Select Usage .
4. On the Usage page, under Reports, select Exchange.
5. On the report page, select the EWS usage tab.
Interpret the EWS usage report
You can filter the EWS usage report by the last 7, 30, or 90 days.
７ Note
Usage data is collected and aggregated weekly, not daily.
To review the applications that use EWS within your organization, examine the Usage trend and
Usage details sections. Additionally, summarized information at the top provides an overview of
the overall usage.

--- Page 819 of 2193 ---

Summary data
Two summary headers appear at the top of the page:
Active apps shows the number of unique apps that sent at least one request to EWS during
the selected period.
Daily average call volume shows the average number of daily requests from active apps
during the selected period.
Usage trend chart
The usage trend chart displays the projected EWS usage trend in your tenant, using weekly data
points that summarize all active apps in your tenant that use EWS during that week. The Y-axis
represents the number of apps, and the X-axis indicates the first date of the week within the
selected period.
Usage details table
The following table provides a breakdown of the EWS usage per SOAP action by each active
application in your tenant during the selected period. You can't customize the columns.
ﾉ Expand table
Metric Definition
Application ID The Microsoft Entra identifier for the registered application
SOAP Action The specific Exchange Web Service SOAP action executed

--- Page 820 of 2193 ---
Metric Definition
Call Volume The number of SOAP action calls in the given period
Last Activity date (UTC) The last date of activity recorded for that app and SOAP action
To export the report data into an Excel .csv file, select Export. This action exports the usage data
of all users and enables you to do simple sorting, filtering, and searching for further analysis.
For a list of Microsoft first-party client application IDs, see Commonly used Microsoft first-party
services and portal apps. For Microsoft applications, Microsoft periodically updates those apps to
remove EWS dependencies. Keep your client applications up-to-date. If you still can't find the
Application ID, check your Enterprise Applications in Microsoft Entra ID. For more information,
see Quickstart: View enterprise applications.
） Note: The author created this article with assistance from AI. Learn more
Last updated on 05/21/2026

--- Page 821 of 2193 ---
Forms activity report
The Forms activity report provides details about user interaction with forms for every user
licensed to use Microsoft Forms. The report also helps you understand the level of collaboration
by showing the number of forms created and the number of forms the user responded to.
For general information about usage reports in the Microsoft 365 admin center, and to see a list
of all available reports, see Microsoft 365 admin center usage reports overview.
View the Forms activity report
For information about the roles needed to view usage reports, see "Before you begin" in
Microsoft 365 admin center usage reports overview
1. Go to the Microsoft 365 admin center .
2. In the navigation menu, select Reports. If you don't see Reports, select Show all, and then
select Reports.
3. Select Usage .
4. On the Usage page, under Reports, select Forms.
Interpret the Forms activity report
The report displays trends over the last 7, 30, 90, or 180 days. However, if you select a particular
day in the report, the table shows data for up to 28 days from the current date, not the date the
report generated.

To add or remove columns from the report, select Choose columns.

--- Page 822 of 2193 ---

To export the report data into an Excel .csv file, select Export. This action exports the usage data
of all users and enables you to do simple sorting, filtering, and searching for further analysis.
The following table contains definitions of the metrics available in the report.
ﾉ Expand table
Metric Definition
Username The email address of the user who performed the activity in Microsoft Forms.
Last activity The latest date a user performed a form activity for the selected date range. To see
date (UTC) activity that occurred on a specific date, select the date directly in the chart. This filter
displays file activity data only for users who performed the activity on that specific day.
Number of The number of forms that the user created.
forms created
Number of The number of forms that the user submitted responses to.
forms
responded
７ Note
By default, user-specific information like usernames, display names, groups, and sites is
hidden in usage reports. To learn how to display this information in usage reports, see Show
user, group, or site details in usage reports.
） Note: The author created this article with assistance from AI. Learn more
Last updated on 05/19/2026

--- Page 823 of 2193 ---
Mailbox usage report
The Mailbox usage report provides information about users with a user mailbox and the level of
activity by each user. Activity is based on the email send, read, create appointment, send meeting,
accept meeting, decline meeting, and cancel meeting activity. The report provides information
about how much storage each user mailbox consumes, and how many of them are approaching
storage quotas. The mailbox usage report also contains information about mailboxes shared
among users, providing storage and quota data on shared mailboxes.
For general information about usage reports in the Microsoft 365 admin center, and to see a list
of all available reports, see Microsoft 365 admin center usage reports overview.
View the Mailbox usage report
For information about the roles needed to view usage reports, see "Before you begin" in
Microsoft 365 admin center usage reports overview).
1. Go to the Microsoft 365 admin center .
2. In the navigation menu, select Reports. If you don't see Reports, select Show all, and then
select Reports.
3. Select Usage .
4. On the Usage page, under Reports, select Exchange.
5. On the report page, select the Email activity tab.
6. Under Email activity, select View More.
7. From the Email activity drop-down list, select Exchange > Mailbox usage.
Interpret the Mailbox usage report
You can view the Mailbox usage report for trends over the last 7, 30, 90, or 180 days. However, if
you select a particular day in the report, the table shows data for up to 28 days from the current
date (not the date the report generated). The data in each report usually covers up to the last 24
to 48 hours.
You can view your organization's mailbox usage by looking at the Mailbox, Storage, and Quota
charts.
To access shared mailbox information, change the drop-down selection at the top right of the
charts to Shared. If your tenant doesn't have shared mailboxes, you can't view any shared

--- Page 824 of 2193 ---
mailbox information.
７ Note
You can't currently export the summary chart information for shared mailboxes. This known
issue will be corrected in a future update.

To add or remove columns from the report, select Choose columns.

--- Page 825 of 2193 ---

To export the report data into an Excel .csv file, select Export. This action exports the usage data
of all users and enables you to do simple sorting, filtering, and searching for further analysis.
The Mailbox chart
The Mailbox chart shows the total number of user or shared mailboxes in your organization, and
the total number of user mailboxes that are active on any given day of the reporting period. A
user mailbox is active if it had an email activity that included at least one of the following actions:
Send
Read

--- Page 826 of 2193 ---
Create appointment
Send meeting
Accept meeting
Decline meeting
Cancel meeting activity
７ Note
Shared mailboxes don't have activity independent of a user mailbox, so the report shows
only a count of shared mailboxes when you select this mailbox type.
On the Mailbox chart:
The Y axis is the number of user or shared mailboxes.
The X axis is the selected date range for this specific report.
The Storage chart
The Storage chart shows the amount of storage used in your organization by mailbox type. The
Storage chart doesn't include archive mailboxes. For more information about auto-expanding
archiving, see Overview of auto-expanding archiving in Microsoft 365.
On the Storage chart:
The Y axis is the amount of storage used by user or shared mailboxes in your organization.
The X axis is the selected date range for this specific report.
The Quota chart
The Quota chart shows the number of user or shared mailboxes in each quota category. There
are four quota categories:
Good: The number of users or shared mailboxes whose storage used is below the "issue
warning" quota.
Warning: The number of users or shared mailboxes whose storage used is at or above the
"issue warning" quota, but below the "prohibit send" quota.
Can't send: The number of users or shared mailboxes whose storage used is at or above the
"prohibit send" quota, but below the "prohibit send/receive" quota.
Can't send/receive: The number of users or shared mailboxes whose storage used is at or
above the "prohibit send/receive" quota.

--- Page 827 of 2193 ---
On the Quota chart:
The Y axis is the number of user or shared mailboxes in each storage quota.
The X axis is the quota category.
Filter the charts you see by selecting an item in the legend.
Mailbox usage per mailbox table
The following table shows a breakdown of mailbox usage at the per mailbox level.
ﾉ Expand table
Metric Definition
Recipient type Either Shared or User.
User name The email address of the user.
Display Name The full name of the user.
Deleted The mailbox whose current state is deleted, but was active during some part of
the reporting period of the report.
Deleted date The date the mailbox was deleted.
Create date The date the mailbox was created.
Last activity date The date the mailbox last had an email send or read activity.
Item count The total number of items in the mailbox.
Storage used (MB) The total storage used.
Deleted Item Count The total number of recoverable items in the mailbox.
Deleted Item Size (MB) The total size of all recoverable items in the mailbox.
Issue warning quota The mailbox storage limit when the mailbox owner receives a warning that it's
(MB) about to hit the storage quota.
Prohibit send quota (MB) The mailbox storage limit when the mailbox can no longer send emails.
Prohibit send receive The mailbox storage limit when the mailbox can no longer send or receive
quota (MB) emails.
Recoverable Item Quota The mailbox storage limit for recoverable (deleted) items in the mailbox when
(MB) the mailbox can no longer delete emails.
Report Period The time period for which the report is available.

--- Page 828 of 2193 ---
Metric Definition
Has Archive Shows if the mailbox has an online archive enabled.
７ Note
By default, user-specific information like usernames, display names, groups, and sites is
hidden in usage reports. To learn how to display this information in usage reports, see Show
user, group, or site details in usage reports.
To learn more about the recoverable items folder, see Recoverable Items folder in Exchange
Online.
） Note: The author created this article with assistance from AI. Learn more
Last updated on 05/21/2026

--- Page 829 of 2193 ---
Office activations report
The Office Activations report provides details about which users activated their Office
subscription on at least one device. It provides a breakdown of the Microsoft 365 Apps for
enterprise, Project, and Visio Pro for Microsoft 365 subscription activations, as well as the
breakdown of activations across desktop and devices. This report can help you identify users who
might need extra help and support to activate their Office subscription.
For general information about usage reports in the Microsoft 365 admin center, and to see a list
of all available reports, see Microsoft 365 admin center usage reports overview.
View the Office activations report
For information about the roles needed to view usage reports, see "Before you begin" in
Microsoft 365 admin center usage reports overview
1. Go to the Microsoft 365 admin center .
2. In the navigation menu, select Reports. If you don't see Reports, select Show all, and then
select Reports.
3. Select Usage .
4. On the Usage page, under Reports, select Microsoft 365 apps, and then select the
Activations tab.
Interpret the Office activations report

To add or remove columns from the report, select Choose columns.

--- Page 830 of 2193 ---

To export the report data into an Excel .csv file, select Export. This action exports the usage data
of all users and enables you to do simple sorting, filtering, and searching for further analysis.
The following table contains definitions of the metrics available in the report.
ﾉ Expand table
Metric Definition
Username The email address of the user.
Display name The full name of the user.
Product licenses The products that are assigned to this user.
Last activated date(UTC) The date the user activated Microsoft 365 on a desktop or a device.
Activation on Windows computers The number of Windows desktops a user activated Microsoft 365
on.
Activation on Mac computers The number of Mac desktops a user activated Microsoft 365 on.
Activation on Windows 10 phones The number of Windows 10 mobile devices a user activated
and tablets Microsoft 365 on.

--- Page 831 of 2193 ---
Metric Definition
Activation on iOS phones and tablets The number of iOS devices a user activated Microsoft 365 on.
Activation on Android phones and The number of Android devices a user activated Microsoft 365 on.
tablets
Used Shared Computer Activation This metric is true if the user used Microsoft 365 through shared
computer activation.
７ Note
By default, user-specific information like usernames, display names, groups, and sites is
hidden in usage reports. To learn how to display this information in usage reports, see Show
user, group, or site details in usage reports.
） Note: The author created this article with assistance from AI. Learn more
Last updated on 05/19/2026

--- Page 832 of 2193 ---
Microsoft 365 Reports in the admin center -
Microsoft Teams apps usage reports
The Microsoft 365 Reports dashboard shows you the activity overview across the products in
your organization. It enables you to drill in to individual product level reports to give you more
granular insight about the activities within each product. Check out the Reports overview article.
In the Microsoft Teams app usage report, you can gain insights into the Teams apps activity in
your organization. This article explains how to access the report and view and interpret the
various metrics within the report.
You can use this report to understand who is installing/using apps, and deep dive on a per-app
and per-user level.
What's in the report
The Teams app usage report is available in the Microsoft 365 admin center and the data is
provided through two separate reports:
App usage - This report helps you answer:
How many apps have users in your environment installed?
How many apps have at least one active user in your environment?
How many apps are being used by platform (Windows, Mac, Web, or mobile)?
How many active users and active teams are using the app?
User activity - This report helps you answer:
How many users in your environment installed at least one app?
How many users in your environment used at least one app?
How many users are using an app across platforms (Windows, Mac, Web, etc.)?
How many apps has each user used?
How to get to the Microsoft Teams apps usage report
1. In the admin center, go to the Reports > Usage page.
2. From the dashboard homepage, select the View more button on the Microsoft Teams apps
activity card.

--- Page 833 of 2193 ---
Considerations
Usage/installs data for a newly published app can take about five days to show up in the
report. Data for a given day shows up within 48 hours. For example, data for January 10
should show up in the report by around January 12.
The start date for all installs metrics is October 2021. Only apps installed after that date are
counted.
App IDs in this report are the External (manifest) App IDs. For more information on how to
tie this ID to an app in the Manage Apps experience in Teams admin center, see Manage
app setup policies in Microsoft Teams.
You can export the report data into an Excel .csv file by selecting the Export link. This
exports data for all users/apps and enables you to do simple sorting and filtering for further
analysis.
Exploring the report - App usage tab
You can view the App usage in the Teams app usage report by choosing the Apps usage tab.

--- Page 834 of 2193 ---

On the top of the report, three charts describe cross-app trends across your organization.
Apps installed
Apps used
Platform
You can filter all charts by the time range picker in the top right.
Apps installed
This chart shows you the total number of app installs across your organization up to each date
within the selected period. For example - if you select January 28, 2022, the chart will show you
the total number of installs from October 2021 up to January 28, 2022.

--- Page 835 of 2193 ---
Apps used
This chart shows you the number of apps used across your organization on each date within the
selected period. For example - if you select January 28, the chart will show you the total number
of apps used on January 28.
Platform
This chart shows you the number of apps used across your organization by platform for the
selected period. Available platforms are Windows, Mac, Mobile (across iOS and Android), and

--- Page 836 of 2193 ---
Web.
Apps usage details table
This table shows you per-app view with the following metrics for each app. A subset of the metric
columns are included by default, and you can select/edit the column list by clicking on Choose
columns in the top right.

ﾉ Expand table
Metric Definition Included by
default?
App ID The external App identifiers present in the app manifest. Yes
Last used date The date when that app was last used by anyone in your organization. Yes
Teams using The number of distinct Teams teams that have at least one user using Yes
this app this app.

--- Page 837 of 2193 ---
Metric Definition Included by
default?
Users using The number of distinct users in your organization that are using this Yes
this app app.
Used on This value indicates whether that app was on Windows by at least one Yes
Windows user in your organization.
Used on This value indicates whether that app was on Mobile by at least one user Yes
Mobile in your organization.
Used on Web This value indicates whether that app was used on Web by at least one Yes
user in your organization.
Used on Mac The number of ad hoc meetings a user organized during the specified No
time period.
App name The Name of this application as present in the app manifest. No
Publisher The publisher of this application as present in the app manifest. This No
metric is only available for apps published to the global Store.
Exploring the report - Teams apps usage user
activity tab
You can view the user activity in the Teams app usage report by choosing the User activity tab.

On the top of the report, three charts describe cross-app trends across your organization.

--- Page 838 of 2193 ---
Users who installed apps
Users who used apps
Platform
You can filter all charts by the time range picker in the top right.
Users who have installed apps
This chart shows you the total number of unique users that have installed an app up to each date
within the selected period. For example - if you select January 28, 2022 the chart will show you
the total number of users from October 2021 up to January 28, 2022.
Users who have used apps
This chart shows you the number of unique users that have used any app on each date within the
selected period. For example - if you select January 28, the chart will show you the total number
of users on January 28.

--- Page 839 of 2193 ---
Platform
This chart shows you the number of apps used across your organization by platform for the
selected period. Available platforms are Windows, Mac, Mobile (across iOS and Android), and
Web.
User activity details table

--- Page 840 of 2193 ---
This table shows you per-user view with the following metrics for each app. A subset of the
metric columns are included by default, and you can select/edit the column list by clicking on
Choose columns in the top right.

ﾉ Expand table
Metric Definition Included by
default?
User name The User name for a unique user. Value is concealed by default. Yes
Apps installed The number of unique apps (across Store and custom) that the user has Yes
installed.
Apps used The number of unique apps (across Store and custom) that the user has Yes
opened and/or used.
Apps used in a The number of unique apps (across Store and custom) that the user has Yes
Team opened and/or used in a team in Microsoft Teams.
Used on This value indicates whether that user used any app on Windows. Yes
Windows
Used on This value indicates whether that user used any app on Mobile (iOS or Yes
Mobile Android).
Used on Web This value indicates whether that user used any app on Web. Yes
Used on Mac This value indicates whether that user used any app on Mac. No
Managing apps in the Teams admin center
For more information about how to manage your Teams apps, refer to About apps in Microsoft
Teams.
To link an app in this report to the Manage Apps experience in Teams admin center, you can use
the following items:
App Name

--- Page 841 of 2193 ---
External App ID
External App IDs are equivalent to the ID in the Manage apps page for Store apps. For custom
apps, to view External App ID in the Manage Apps page, follow the instructions on Manage apps
setup policies in Microsoft Teams to add the column in the column settings. You can also view it
on the app details page for a custom app.
FAQ
I've blocked the Teams app in the Teams admin center. Why
does it still show usage in the apps usage report in Teams
admin center?
Even if an app is blocked in the Teams admin center, usage signals might still appear in the Teams
app usage report or in the Microsoft 365 Teams app usage report. This can happen due to
passive user interactions, such as viewing a card posted by the app in a chat or channel. These
interactions can generate telemetry without the user actively launching or interacting with the
app.
If I've blocked a Teams app in the Teams admin center, is it still
being used?
No. Blocking the app in the Teams admin center prevents users from launching or executing it.
The app is not running, and users cannot interact with it directly. However, the usage report
includes a broader range of signals beyond just app launches.
Is the app usage report inaccurate?
The report is accurate, but it is intentionally inclusive. It reflects a wider set of usage types,
including passive views of app content. This provides visibility into all the ways users may be
exposed to app functionality, even if the app is blocked from active use.
Does blocking an app in Teams admin center stop all usage
across Microsoft 365?
No. Blocking an app in the Teams admin center prevents users from installing or launching it in
Teams. It does not block passive exposure or usage in other Microsoft 365 surfaces like Outlook
or the Microsoft 365 app.

--- Page 842 of 2193 ---
The app must be blocked in the Teams admin center and the Microsoft 365 admin center. If your
organization uses Unified app management, settings made in one admin center will sync with the
other. This synchronization does not prevent passive usage.
Will the report differentiate between "passive" usage vs
"actual" usage in the report, so I can be certain there is no app
usage occurring?
Currently, there are no plans to separate passive usage from active usage in the report.
Last updated on 05/22/2025

--- Page 843 of 2193 ---
Microsoft Teams device usage report
The Microsoft Teams device usage report provides an overview of device usage activity in Teams,
including the number of daily active users by device type. You can quickly see what devices
licensed users across your organization are using to access Teams.
For general information about usage reports in the Microsoft 365 admin center, and to see a list
of all available reports, see Microsoft 365 admin center usage reports overview.
View the Microsoft Teams device usage report
For information about the roles needed to view usage reports, see "Before you begin" in
Microsoft 365 admin center usage reports overview
1. Go to the Microsoft 365 admin center .
2. In the navigation menu, select Reports. If you don't see Reports, select Show all, and then
select Reports.
3. Select Usage .
4. On the Usage page, under Reports, select Microsoft Teams, and then select the Device
usage tab.
Interpret the Microsoft Teams device usage report
The report displays trends over the last 7, 30, 90, or 180 days. However, if you select a particular
day in the report, the table shows data for up to 28 days from the current date, not the date the
report generated.

To add or remove columns from the report, select Choose columns.

--- Page 844 of 2193 ---

To export the report data into an Excel .csv file, select Export. This action exports the usage data
of all users and enables you to do simple sorting, filtering, and searching for further analysis.
The following table contains definitions of the metrics available in the report.
ﾉ Expand table
Metric Definition
User name The display name of the user.
Windows Selected if the user was active in the Teams desktop client on a Windows-based
computer.
Mac Selected if the user was active in the Teams desktop client on a macOS computer.
iOS Selected if the user was active on the Teams mobile client for iOS.
Android phone Selected if the user was active on the Teams mobile client for Android.
Chrome OS Selected if the user was active in the Teams desktop client on a ChromeOS

--- Page 845 of 2193 ---
Metric Definition
computer.
Linux Selected if the user was active in the Teams desktop client on a Linux computer.
Web Selected if the user was active in the Teams web client on devices.
Last activity date The last date (UTC) that the user participated in a Teams activity.
(UTC)
Is licensed Selected if the user is licensed to use Teams.
７ Note
By default, user-specific information like usernames, display names, groups, and sites is
hidden in usage reports. To learn how to display this information in usage reports, see Show
user, group, or site details in usage reports.
Related content
Microsoft Teams user activity report (article)
Microsoft Teams usage activity report (article)
） Note: The author created this article with assistance from AI. Learn more
Last updated on 05/19/2026

--- Page 846 of 2193 ---
Microsoft Teams usage report - Microsoft
365 admin center
The Microsoft Teams usage report provides an overview of the usage activity in Teams,
including the number of active users, channels, and messages. You can quickly see how many
users across your organization are using Teams to communicate and collaborate. The report
also includes other Teams-specific activities, like the number of active guests, meetings, and
messages.
For general information about Microsoft 365 Usage reports and to see a list of all available
reports, see Microsoft 365 admin center usage reports overview.

View the Microsoft Teams usage report
For information about the roles needed to view usage reports, see Microsoft 365 admin center
usage reports overview.
1. Go to the Microsoft 365 admin center .
2. In the navigation menu, select Reports. If you don't see Reports, select Show all, and then
select Reports.
3. Select Usage .

--- Page 847 of 2193 ---
4. On the Usage page, under Reports, select Microsoft Teams.
5. On the report page, select the Team usage tab.
Interpret the Team usage report
Use the Team usage report to view channel and team usage, including data about individual
teams. The Team usage tab displays the following charts:
Channel usage: Tracks the number of channel uses, by activity type, over time.

Team usage: Tracks the number of teams, by type and activity, over time.

Additionally, the chart includes usage details for individual teams, such as last activity date,
active users, active channels, and other data.

--- Page 848 of 2193 ---

In the table, select Choose columns to add or remove columns from the report.


--- Page 849 of 2193 ---
Select the Export link to export the report data into an Excel .csv file. This action exports data
for all users and enables you to do simple sorting and filtering for further analysis. The
exported format for audio time, video time, and screen share time follows ISO8601 duration
format.
You can view the Microsoft Teams usage activity report for trends over the last 7, 30, 90, or
180 days. However, if you select a particular day in the report, the table shows data for up to 28
days from the current date (not the date the report was generated).
７ Note
Activity dates in this report are based on Coordinated Universal Time (UTC). Post counts
attributed to a given day reflect messages sent between 12:00 AM and 11:59 PM UTC,
which might differ from your organization's local time zone.
To ensure data quality, the system performs daily data validation checks for the past three days
and fills any detected gaps. You might notice differences in historical data during the process.
） Important
Data for a given day appears within 48 hours. For example, data for January 10th appears
in the report by January 12th.
Channel usage metrics
The Channel usage chart shows data about the following metrics.
ﾉ Expand table
Metric Definition
Active This metric is the total of internal active users, active guests, and external active users.
channel
users Internal active users - Users that have at least one panel action in the specified time
period. This metric excludes guests.
Active guests - Guests that have at least one panel action in the specified time period. A
guest is a person from outside your organization who accesses shared resources by
signing in to a guest account in my directory.
External active user - External participants that have at least one panel action in the
specified time period. An external participant is a person from outside your organization

--- Page 850 of 2193 ---
Metric Definition
who is participating in a resource – such as a shared channel – using their own identity and
not a guest account in your directory.
Active Valid channels in active teams that have at least one active user in the specified time
channels period. This metric includes public, private, or shared channels.
Channel The number of unique messages that the user posted in a private chat during the specified
messages time period.
７ Note
Panel action refers to any action taken by the user in the panel within Microsoft Teams.
Team usage metrics
The Teams usage chart shows data on the following metrics.
ﾉ Expand table
Metric Definition
Private teams A private team that is either active or inactive.
Public teams A public team that is either active or inactive.
Active private teams A team that is private and active.
Active public teams A team that is public and active.
Teams details
You can view data for the following metrics for individual teams.
ﾉ Expand table
Metric Definition
Team ID Team identifier
Internal active Users that have at least one panel action in the specified time period, including guests.
users
Internal users and guests that reside in the same tenant. Internal users exclude guests.

--- Page 851 of 2193 ---
Metric Definition
Active guests Guests that have at least one panel action in the specified time period.
A guest is defined as persons from outside your organization who access shared
resources by signing in to a guest account in my directory.
External active External participants that have at least one panel action in the specified time period.
users
An external participant is defined as a person from outside your organization who is
participating in a resource – such as a shared channel – using their own identity and not
a guest account in your directory.
Active Valid channels in active teams that have at least one active user in the specified time
channels period. This metric includes public, private, or shared channels.
Active shared Valid shared channels in active teams that have at least one active user in the specified
channels time.
A shared channel is defined as a Teams channel that you can share with people outside
the team. These people can be inside your organization or from other Microsoft Entra
organizations.
NOTE: For shared channels that include external users, the report might undercount the
number of active shared channels due to current telemetry limitations.
Total The sum of one-time scheduled, recurring, ad hoc, and unclassified meetings a user
organized organized during the specified time period.
meetings
Posts Count of all the post messages originally created in a channel during the specified time
period. Cross-posted messages are counted only in the channel where they were
originally created and aren't included in the post count of channels that received the
cross-post.
Replies Count of all the reply messages in channels in the specified time period.
Mentions Count of all mentions made in the specified time period.
Reactions Number of reactions an active user made in the specified time period.
Urgent Count of urgent messages in the specified time period.
messages
Channel The number of unique messages that the user posted in a team chat during the specified
messages time period.
Last activity The latest date that any member of the team committed an action.
date

--- Page 852 of 2193 ---
By default, user-specific information like username and display name is hidden in usage
reports. To learn how to display this information in usage reports, see Show user, group, or site
details in usage reports.
７ Note
Metric counts include Teams client built-in features, but don't include changes to chat and
channel through service integration, such as Teams app posts or replies and emails in the
channel.
Related content
Microsoft Teams device usage report (article)
Microsoft Teams user activity report (article)
） Note: The author created this article with assistance from AI. Learn more
Last updated on 04/03/2026

--- Page 853 of 2193 ---
Microsoft Teams user activity report
The Microsoft Teams user activity report provides insights into the Microsoft Teams activity in
your organization.
For general information about usage reports in the Microsoft 365 admin center, and to see a list
of all available reports, see Microsoft 365 admin center usage reports overview.
View the Microsoft Teams user activity report
For information about the roles needed to view usage reports, see "Before you begin" in
Microsoft 365 admin center usage reports overview
1. Go to the Microsoft 365 admin center .
2. In the navigation menu, select Reports. If you don't see Reports, select Show all, and then
select Reports.
3. Select Usage .
4. On the Usage page, under Reports, select Microsoft Teams.
5. On the report page, select the User activity tab.
Interpret the Microsoft Teams user activity report
You can view the Microsoft Teams user activity report for trends over the last 7, 30, 90, or 180
days. However, if you select a particular day in the report, the table shows data for up to 28 days
from the current date (not the date the report was generated).
To ensure data quality, the system performs daily data validation checks for the past three days
and fills any detected gaps. You might notice differences in historical data during this process.

--- Page 854 of 2193 ---

To add or remove columns from the report, select Choose columns.

--- Page 856 of 2193 ---

To export the report data into an Excel .csv file, select Export. This action exports the usage data
of all users and enables you to do simple sorting, filtering, and searching for further analysis.
The exported format for audio time, video time, and screen share time follows ISO 8601
duration format.
ﾉ Expand table
Metric Mapped Definition
metric in
export
User name User Principal The email address of the user. You can display the actual email address
Name or make this field anonymous.
Tenant name Tenant Display The name of an internal or external tenant where a user belongs.
Name
If a user belongs to an external tenant, corresponding data metrics like
post messages or reply messages, are calculated based on their
interactions in shared channels of the admin's tenant. Interactions
done by the user in their own tenant (outside of shared channels of
the given tenant) aren't considered for the admin usage report of
given tenant.
Is external Is External Indicates if the user is an external user or not.
Shared channel Shared Channel The names of internal or external tenants of shared channels where
tenant names Tenant Display the user participated.
Names
Channel Team Chat The number of unique messages that the user posted in a team chat
messages Message Count during the specified time period. This count includes original posts
and replies.
Posts Post Messages The number of post messages in all channels during the specified time
period. A post is the original message in a teams chat.
Replies Reply Messages The number of replied messages in all channels during the specified
time period.

--- Page 857 of 2193 ---
Metric Mapped Definition
metric in
export
Urgent Urgent The number of urgent messages during the specified time period.
messages Messages
Chat messages Private Chat The number of unique messages that the user posted in a private chat
Message Count during the specified time period.
Total meetings Meeting Count Refer to the "Total participated meetings" metric, as defined later in
this table, as the current metric and "Total participated meetings"
share the same definition. The current metric is being gradually
phased out in favor of "Total participated meetings."
1:1 calls Call Count The number of 1:1 calls that the user participated in during the
specified time period.
Last activity Last Activity The last date that the user participated in a Microsoft Teams activity.
date (UTC) Date
Meetings Ad Hoc The number of unplanned meetings a user participated in during the
participated ad Meetings specified time period.
hoc Attended
Count
Meetings Ad Hoc The number of unplanned meetings a user organized during the
organized ad Meetings specified time period.
hoc Organized
Count NOTE: MeetNow meetings initiated from a chat are reflected in the
Teams user activity report as "Ad Hoc Meetings Organized." MeetNow
meetings initiated from Teams calendar are reflected in the Teams user
activity report as "Scheduled One-Time Meetings Organized."
Total organized Meetings The sum of one-time scheduled, recurring, improvised, and
meetings Organized unclassified meetings a user organized during the specified time
Count period.
Total Meetings The sum of the one-time scheduled, recurring, unplanned, and
participated Attended unclassified meetings a user participated in during the specified time
meetings Count period.
Meetings Scheduled The number of one-time scheduled meetings a user organized during
organized One-time the specified time period.
scheduled one- Meetings
time Organized NOTE: MeetNow meetings initiated from Teams calendar are reflected
Count in the Teams user activity report as "Scheduled One-Time Meetings
Organized." MeetNow meetings initiated from a chat are reflected in
the Teams user activity report as "Ad Hoc Meetings Organized."

--- Page 858 of 2193 ---
Metric Mapped Definition
metric in
export
Meetings Scheduled The number of recurring meetings a user organized during the
organized Recurring specified time period.
scheduled Meetings
recurring Organized
Count
Meetings Scheduled The number of the one-time scheduled meetings a user participated in
participated One-time during the specified time period.
scheduled one- Meetings
time Attended
Count
Meetings Scheduled The number of the recurring meetings a user participated in during
participated Recurring the specified time period.
scheduled Meetings
recurring Attended
Count
Is licensed Is Licensed Selected if the user is licensed to use Teams.
Other activity Has Other The user is active but performed activities other than exposed action
Action types offered in the report. For example, sending or replying to
channel messages and chat messages, and scheduling or participating
in 1:1 calls and meetings. Examples actions are when a user changes
the Teams status or the Teams status message or opens a Channel
Message post but doesn't reply.
Audio Duration - Same definition as "Audio Duration (In Seconds)" and formatted by
ISO 8601 - Wikipedia
Video Duration - Same definition as "Video Duration (In Seconds)" and formatted by
ISO 8601 - Wikipedia
Screen Share - The sum of the screen share duration of a user used during the
Duration specified time period and formatted by ISO 8601 - Wikipedia
Audio Duration Audio Time Total time the user participated in meetings or calls where audio was
(In Seconds) (Min) enabled. Counts the entire meeting or call duration if the user sent or
received audio, not just time speaking or unmuted. Includes meetings
initiated via screen share from Chat (SSFC) when audio is enabled.
Applies to both senders and receivers; nonoptimized VDI clients might
show nonzero minutes without active audio use.
Video Duration Video Time Total time the user participated in meetings or calls where video was
(In Seconds) (Min) enabled. Counts the entire meeting or call duration if the user sent or
received video, not just time the camera was on. Includes SSFC
meetings when video is enabled. Applies to both senders and

--- Page 859 of 2193 ---
Metric Mapped Definition
metric in
export
receivers; nonoptimized VDI clients might show nonzero minutes
without active video use.
Screen Share Screen Share The sum of the screen share duration of a user used during the
Duration In Time (Min) specified time period
Seconds
７ Note
By default, user-specific information like usernames, display names, groups, and sites is
hidden in usage reports. To learn how to display this information in usage reports, see Show
user, group, or site details in usage reports.
７ Note
Metric counts include Teams client built-in features, but don't include changes to chat
and channel through service integration, such as Teams app posts or replies and emails
in the channel.
Audio and video duration metrics represent participation time in meetings where audio
or video was enabled, not active speaking or camera-on time.
Related content
Microsoft Teams device usage report (article)
Microsoft Teams usage activity report (article)
） Note: The author created this article with assistance from AI. Learn more
Last updated on 05/21/2026

--- Page 860 of 2193 ---
Microsoft 365 Reports in the admin center
- Microsoft 365 Apps usage
Summarize this article for me
The Microsoft 365 Reports dashboard shows you the activity overview across the products in
your organization. It enables you to drill in to individual product level reports to give you more
granular insight about the activities within each product. Check out the Reports overview
article.
For example, you can understand the activity of each user licensed to use Microsoft 365 Apps
apps by looking at their activity across the apps and how they are utilized across platforms.
７ Note
Shared computer activations are not included in this report.
How to get to the Microsoft 365 Apps usage report
1. In the admin center, go to the Reports > Usage page.
2. From the dashboard homepage, under Reports, select Microsoft 365 apps > Usage.
Interpret the Microsoft 365 Apps usage report
You can get a view into your user's Microsoft 365 Apps activity by looking at the Users and
Platform charts.

The Microsoft 365 Apps usage report can be viewed for trends over the last 7 days, 30 days,
90 days, or 180 days. However, if you select a particular day in the report, the table will show
data for up to 28 days from the current date (not the date the report was generated).
The data in each report usually covers up to the last two days. Every six days, we will refresh the
report with minor updates to ensure data quality.

--- Page 861 of 2193 ---
The Users view shows the trend in the number of active users for each app – Outlook, Word,
Excel, PowerPoint, OneNote, and Teams. "Active users" are any who perform any intentional
actions within these apps.
The Platforms view shows the trend of active users across all apps for each platform –
Windows, Mac, Web, and Mobile.
On the Users chart, the Y-axis is the number of unique active users for the respective app. On
the Platforms chart, the Y-axis is the number of unique users for the respective platform. The X-
axis on both charts is the date on which an app was used on a given platform.
You can filter the series you see on the chart by selecting an item in the legend. For example,
on the Users chart, select Outlook, Word, Excel, PowerPoint, OneDrive, or Teams to see only the
info related to each one. Changing this selection doesn't change the info in the grid table
below it.
Outlook for Windows migration
The Outlook for Windows migration process view provides organizations with valuable
insights into the adoption of the new Outlook for Windows, as well as trends in migration from
the classic version to the new version.
All eligible licenses for Word, Excel, PowerPoint, and OneNote in this report include the
following:
OFFICE 365 BUSINESS
OFFICE SHARED COMPUTER ACTIVATION
OFFICE 365 PROPLUS FOR DEVICE
OFFICE 365 PROPLUS
OFFICE 365 PROPLUS PILOT
OFFICE 365 SMALL BUSINESS SUBSCRIPTION PREVIEW
OFFICE 365 PROPLUS PILOT
OFFICE 365 SMALL BUSINESS SUBSCRIPTION
OFFICE 365 PROPLUS G
MICROSOFT 365 APPS FOR ENTERPRISE (UNATTENDED) FOR GCC
MICROSOFT 365 APPS FOR ENTERPRISE (UNATTENDED)
MICROSOFT 365 APPS EXTENDED OFFLINE ACCESS
MICROSOFT 365 APPS EXTENDED OFFLINE ACCESS G
All eligible licenses for Outlook in this report extend to those that enable Outlook service
beyond the ones listed for Word, Excel, PowerPoint, and OneNote.

--- Page 862 of 2193 ---
Per-user level data table
The table shows you a breakdown of data at the per-user level. You can add or remove
columns from the table.
ﾉ Expand table
Item Description
Username The email address of the user who performed the activity on Microsoft Apps.
Last activation date The latest date on which the user activated their Microsoft 365 Apps subscription
(UTC) on a machine or logs on shared computer and starts the app with their account.
Last activity date The latest date an intentional activity was performed by the user. To see activity
(UTC) that occurred on a specific date, select the date directly in the chart.
Activity in classic Indicates if the user was active in classic Outlook for Windows during the
Outlook specified time period.
Activity in new Indicates if the user was active in new Outlook for Windows during the specified
Outlook time period.
Activity on Windows Indicates if the user was active in Windows during the specified time period.
devices
Activity on Mac Indicates if the user was active in Mac during the specified time period.
devices
Activity on mobile Indicates if the user was active in mobile during the specified time period.
Activity on web Indicates if the user was active in web during the specified time period.
Activity on Outlook Indicates if the user was active on the Outlook app, including both new Outlook
app and classic Outlook, during the specified time period.
Activity on Word app Indicates if the user was active on the Word app during the specified time
period.
Activity on Excel app Indicates if the user was active on the Excel app during the specified time period.
Activity on Indicates if the user was active on the PowerPoint app during the specified time
PowerPoint app period.
Activity on OneNote Indicates if the user was active on the OneNote app during the specified time
app period.
Activity on Teams app Indicates if the user was active on the Teams app during the specified time
period.

--- Page 863 of 2193 ---
Item Description
Activity on Outlook Indicates if the user was active on Outlook for Windows, including both new
for Windows Outlook for Windows and classic Outlook for Windows during the specified time
period.
Activity on Word for Indicates if the user was active on Word for Windows during the specified time
Windows period.
Activity on Excel for Indicates if the user was active on Excel for Windows during the specified time
Windows period.
Activity on Indicates if the user was active on PowerPoint for Windows during the specified
PowerPoint for time period.
Windows
Activity on OneNote Indicates if the user was active on OneNote for Windows during the specified
for Windows time period.
Activity on Teams for Indicates if the user was active on Teams for Windows during the specified time
Windows period.
Activity on Outlook Indicates if the user was active on Outlook for Mac during the specified time
for Mac period.
Activity on Word for Indicates if the user was active on Word for Mac during the specified time
Mac period.
Activity on Excel for Indicates if the user was active on Excel for Mac during the specified time period.
Mac
Activity on Indicates if the user was active on PowerPoint for Mac during the specified time
PowerPoint for Mac period.
Activity on OneNote Indicates if the user was active on OneNote for Mac during the specified time
for Mac period.
Activity on Teams for Indicates if the user was active on Teams for Mac during the specified time
Mac period.
Activity on Outlook Indicates if the user was active on Outlook for mobile during the specified time
(mobile) period.
Activity on Word Indicates if the user was active on Word for mobile during the specified time
(mobile) period.
Activity on Excel Indicates if the user was active on Excel for mobile during the specified time
(mobile) period.
Activity on Indicates if the user was active on PowerPoint for mobile during the specified
PowerPoint (mobile) time period.

--- Page 864 of 2193 ---
Item Description
Activity on OneNote Indicates if the user was active on OneNote for mobile during the specified time
(mobile) period.
Activity on Teams Indicates if the user was active on Teams for mobile during the specified time
(mobile) period.
Activity on Outlook Indicates if the user was active on Outlook for web during the specified time
(web) period.
Activity on Word Indicates if the user was active on Word for web during the specified time
(web) period.
Activity on Excel (web) Indicates if the user was active on Excel for web during the specified time period.
Activity on Indicates if the user was active on PowerPoint for web during the specified time
PowerPoint (web) period.
Activity on OneNote Indicates if the user was active on OneNote for web during the specified time
(web) period.
Activity on Teams Indicates if the user was active on Teams for web during the specified time
(web) period.
７ Note
Outlook for Windows migration process view, and the columns 'Activity in classic
Outlook' and 'Activity in new Outlook' in table are only available in the Public
environment.
７ Note
New Outlook (Monarch) usage is monitored through the Microsoft 365 admin center and
not through Graph API.
The other columns identify if the user was active on that platform for that app (within Microsoft
365 Apps) in the period selected.
Select the Choose columns icon to add or remove columns from the report.
You can also export the report data into an Excel .csv file by selecting the Export link. This
exports data for all users and enables you to do simple aggregation, sorting, and filtering for
further analysis.

--- Page 865 of 2193 ---
Last updated on 02/20/2026

--- Page 866 of 2193 ---
Microsoft 365 Groups activity report
The Microsoft 365 Groups activity report provides insight into the activity of groups in your
organization. It includes details about how many groups are created and used.
For general information about usage reports in the Microsoft 365 admin center, and to see a list
of all available reports, see Microsoft 365 admin center usage reports overview.
View the Microsoft 365 Groups activity report
For information about the roles needed to view usage reports, see "Before you begin" in
Microsoft 365 admin center usage reports overview
1. Go to the Microsoft 365 admin center .
2. In the navigation menu, select Reports. If you don't see Reports, select Show all, and then
select Reports.
3. Select Usage .
4. On the Usage page, under Reports, select Microsoft 365 apps.
5. Select the Groups activity tab. If you don't see the tab, select the three dots, and then select
Groups activity.
Interpret the Microsoft 365 Groups activity report
The report displays trends over the last 7, 30, 90, or 180 days. However, if you select a particular
day in the report, the table shows data for up to 28 days from the current date, not the date the
report generated.

--- Page 867 of 2193 ---

To add or remove columns from the report, select Choose columns.

--- Page 868 of 2193 ---

To export the report data into an Excel .csv file, select Export. This action exports the usage data
of all users and enables you to do simple sorting, filtering, and searching for further analysis.
The following table contains definitions of the metrics available in the report.
ﾉ Expand table
Metric Definition
Group name The name of the group.

--- Page 869 of 2193 ---
Metric Definition
Deleted The number of deleted groups. If the group is deleted, but had activity in the
reporting period it shows up in the grid with this flag set to true.
Group owner The name of the group owner.
Last activity date (UTC) This date shows the most recent activity in an email conversation, Viva Engage,
or the site.
Type The type of group. This type can be private or public group.
Emails received in The number of messages received by the group.
Exchange
Emails in Exchange (total) The total number of items in the group's mailbox.
Mailbox storage used for The storage used by the group's mailbox.
Exchange (MB)
SharePoint files (total) The number of files stored in SharePoint group sites.
SharePoint files (active) The number of files in the SharePoint group site that were acted on (viewed or
modified, synched, shared internally or externally) during the reporting period.
Total site storage used The amount of storage in MB used during the reporting period.
for SharePoint (MB)
Messages in Viva Engage The number of messages posted in the Viva Engage group over the reporting
(posted) period.
Messages in Viva Engage The number of conversations read in the Viva Engage group over the reporting
(read) period.
Messages in Viva Engage The number of messages liked in the Viva Engage group over the reporting
(liked) period.
Members The number of members in the group.
External members The number of external users in the group.
Total organized meetings The sum of one-time scheduled and recurring meetings a user organized during
the specified time period.
Channel messages The number of unique messages that a user posted in a team chat during the
specified time period. This number includes original posts and replies.
７ Note
By default, user-specific information like usernames, display names, groups, and sites is
hidden in usage reports. To learn how to display this information in usage reports, see Show

--- Page 870 of 2193 ---
user, group, or site details in usage reports.
Related content
Microsoft 365 Reports in the admin center (article)
Microsoft 365 Reports in the admin center - Active Users (article)
） Note: The author created this article with assistance from AI. Learn more
Last updated on 05/19/2026

--- Page 871 of 2193 ---
OneDrive activity report
The OneDrive activity report provides insight for every user licensed to use OneDrive by looking
at their interaction with files on OneDrive. It also helps you understand the level of collaboration
by looking at the number of files shared.
For general information about usage reports in the Microsoft 365 admin center, and to see a list
of all available reports, see Microsoft 365 admin center usage reports overview.
View the OneDrive activity report
For information about the roles needed to view usage reports, see "Before you begin" in
Microsoft 365 admin center usage reports overview
1. Go to the Microsoft 365 admin center .
2. In the navigation menu, select Reports. If you don't see Reports, select Show all, and then
select Reports.
3. Select Usage .
4. On the Usage page, under Reports, select OneDrive, and then select the Activity tab.
Interpret the OneDrive activity report
The report displays trends over the last 7, 30, 90, or 180 days. However, if you select a particular
day in the report, the table shows data for up to 28 days from the current date, not the date the
report generated.

--- Page 872 of 2193 ---

To add or remove columns from the report, select Choose columns.


--- Page 873 of 2193 ---
To export the report data into an Excel .csv file, select Export. This action exports the usage data
of all users and enables you to do simple sorting, filtering, and searching for further analysis.
The following table contains definitions of the metrics available in the report.
ﾉ Expand table
Metric Definition
Username The user name of the owner of the OneDrive account.
Last activity The most recent day file activity occurred on the OneDrive account for the selected date
date (UTC) range. To see activity that occurred on a specific date, select the date directly in the chart.
Files viewed The number of files that the user uploaded, downloaded, modified, or viewed.
or edited
Files synced The number of files synced between a user's local device to the OneDrive account.
Files shared The number of files shared with users within the organization, or with users within groups
internally (that might include external users).
Files shared The number of files shared with users outside of the organization.
externally
Deleted This metric indicates that the user's license was removed.
NOTE: Activity for a deleted user displays in a report as long as they were licensed at some
time during the selected time period. The Deleted column helps you to note that the user
might no longer be active, but contributed to the data in the report.
Deleted date The date when the user's license was removed.
Product The Microsoft 365 products that are licensed to the user.
assigned
７ Note
By default, user-specific information like usernames, display names, groups, and sites is
hidden in usage reports. To learn how to display this information in usage reports, see Show
user, group, or site details in usage reports.
） Note: The author created this article with assistance from AI. Learn more
Last updated on 05/19/2026

--- Page 874 of 2193 ---
OneDrive usage report
The OneDrive usage report provides a high-level view of the value you get from OneDrive. The
report includes details about the total number of accounts, files, and storage used across your
organization. You can drill into it to understand the trends of active OneDrive accounts, how
many files users are interacting with, and the amount of storage used. It also gives you details for
each user's OneDrive.
） Important
The report only includes users who have a valid OneDrive license.
For general information about usage reports in the Microsoft 365 admin center, and to see a list
of all available reports, see Microsoft 365 admin center usage reports overview.
View the OneDrive usage report
For information about the roles needed to view usage reports, see "Before you begin" in
Microsoft 365 admin center usage reports overview
1. Go to the Microsoft 365 admin center .
2. In the navigation menu, select Reports. If you don't see Reports, select Show all, and then
select Reports.
3. Select Usage .
4. On the Usage page, under Reports, select OneDrive.
5. On the report page, select the Usage tab.
Interpret the OneDrive usage report
The OneDrive usage report displays trends over the last 7, 30, 90, or 180 days. However, if you
select a particular day in the report, the table shows data for up to 28 days from the current date
(not the date the report generated).

--- Page 875 of 2193 ---

To add or remove columns from the report, select Choose columns.

To export the report data into an Excel .csv file, select Export. This action exports the usage data
of all users and enables you to do simple sorting, filtering, and searching for further analysis.
ﾉ Expand table

--- Page 876 of 2193 ---
Metric Definition
URL The web address for the user's OneDrive. Note: URL is temporarily empty.
Deleted The deletion status of the OneDrive. It takes at least seven days for accounts to be marked
as deleted.
Owner The username of the primary administrator of the OneDrive.
Owner The email address of the owner of the OneDrive.
principal
name
Last activity The latest date a file activity was performed in the OneDrive. If the OneDrive has no file
date (UTC) activity, the value is blank.
Files The number of files in the OneDrive.
Active files The number of active files within the time period.
NOTE: If you remove files during the specified time period for the report, the number of
active files shown in the report might be larger than the current number of files in OneDrive.
Deleted users continue to appear in reports for 180 days.
Storage used The amount of storage the OneDrive uses in MB.
(MB)
Site ID The site ID of the site.
７ Note
By default, user-specific information like usernames, display names, groups, and sites is
hidden in usage reports. To learn how to display this information in usage reports, see Show
user, group, or site details in usage reports.
７ Note
The OneDrive site URL might not be displayed in related usage reports. You can use
PowerShell to display the site URL. For more information, see Use PowerShell to resolve site
URLs.
） Note: The author created this article with assistance from AI. Learn more
Last updated on 05/21/2026

--- Page 877 of 2193 ---
Microsoft 365 Reports in the admin
center - Project activity
Article • 02/29/2024
The Microsoft 365 Reports dashboard shows you the activity overview across the
products in your organization. It enables you to drill in to individual product level
reports to give you more granular insight about the activities within each product. Check
out the Reports overview topic.
In the Project activity report, you can understand the activity of every user licensed to
use Microsoft Project by looking at their interaction with Project. It also helps you to
understand the level of collaboration going on by looking at the number of projects
visited and tasks created or edited.
How to get to the Project activity report
1. In the admin center, go to the Reports > Usage page.
2. From the dashboard homepage, select Project in the left navigation.
Interpret the Project activity report
You can use this report to see the activity and usage of Project in your environment. You
will see four summary charts in this report:
Active users - Shows you the daily active users on each day over time. Currently,
this includes only Project for the Web and Project Online desktop client.
Active users (by client) - Shows you the daily active users on each day over time,
broken out by client (Project for the Web vs. Project Online desktop client).
Project Activity - Shows you the number of daily sessions of Project over time, for
each client (Project for the Web and Project Online desktop client).

--- Page 878 of 2193 ---
Task activity - Shows you the daily number of tasks created or edited over time in
Project for the Web
The report also has a table that shows activity for each project user in your environment.
Select Choose columns to add or remove columns from the table.
You can also export the report data into an Excel .csv file by selecting the Export link.
This exports data of all users and enables you to do simple sorting and filtering for
further analysis.
The Project activity report can be viewed for trends over the last 7 days, 30 days, 90
days, or 180 days. If you select a particular day in the report, the per user data table will
be updated accordingly to display users' usage on that day. However, this feature only
works for the most recent 28 days.
Privacy settings impact on the dashboard
If users or admins have their privacy settings set to Neither, we do not have accurate
metrics for the Project activity chart for the Project Online desktop client. The numbers
shown will be undercounted. For more information on privacy settings, see Use policy
settings to manage privacy controls for Microsoft 365 Apps for enterprise.

--- Page 879 of 2193 ---
User activity table
The following are definitions for each metric in the user activity table.
ﾉ Expand table
Item Description
User name The user's principal name.
Display name The full name of the user.
Last activity The latest date the user in that row had activity in Project, including any of the
date activities in the summary reports.
Projects The number of projects opened by the user in the Project Online desktop client
visited during the time range selected in the top right of the page.
(Desktop)
Projects The number of projects visited by the user in Project for the Web during the time
visited (Web) range selected in the top right of the page.
Tasks created The number of tasks created by the user in Project for the Web during the time
(Web) range selected in the top right of the page.
Tasks edited The number of tasks edited by the user in Project for the Web during the time
(Web) range selected in the top right of the page.
Other This value is true if the user has performed an activity in Project Online desktop
client or in Project for the Web (that is not covered by the other columns) in the
time range selected in the top right of the page. If the user has not, this value is
false.
Feedback
Was this page helpful?  Yes  No
Provide product feedback

--- Page 880 of 2193 ---
SharePoint activity report
The SharePoint activity report provides details about the activity of every licensed SharePoint user
by looking at their interaction with files. The report helps you understand the level of
collaboration by showing the number of files shared.
For general information about usage reports in the Microsoft 365 admin center, and to see a list
of all available reports, see Microsoft 365 admin center usage reports overview.
View the SharePoint activity report
For information about the roles needed to view usage reports, see "Before you begin" in
Microsoft 365 admin center usage reports overview
1. Go to the Microsoft 365 admin center .
2. In the navigation menu, select Reports. If you don't see Reports, select Show all, and then
select Reports.
3. Select Usage .
4. On the Usage page, under Reports, select SharePoint.
5. On the report page, select the Activity tab.
Interpret the SharePoint activity report
The report displays trends over the last 7, 30, 90, or 180 days. However, if you select a particular
day in the report, the table shows data for up to 28 days from the current date, not the date the
report was generated.

--- Page 881 of 2193 ---

To add or remove columns from the report, select Choose columns.

To export the report data into an Excel .csv file, select Export. This action exports the usage data
of all users and enables you to do simple sorting, filtering, and searching for further analysis.

--- Page 882 of 2193 ---
The following table contains definitions of the metrics available in the report.
ﾉ Expand table
Metric Definition
Username The email address of the user who performed the activity on the SharePoint Site.
Last activity The latest date a file activity was performed or a page was visited for the selected date
date (UTC) range. To see activity that occurred on a specific date, select the date directly in the chart.
Files viewed The number of files that the user uploaded, downloaded, modified, or viewed.
or edited
Files synced The number of files that are synced from a user's local device to the SharePoint site.
Files shared The count of files that are shared with users within the organization, or with users within
internally groups (that might include external users).
Files shared The number of files that are shared with users outside of the organization.
externally
Pages visited The visits to unique pages by the user.
Deleted This value indicates that the user's license was removed.
NOTE: Activity for a deleted user still displays in the report as long as the user was licensed
at some time during the selected time period. The Deleted column helps you to note that
the user might no longer be active, but contributed to the data in the report.
Deleted date The date when the user's license was removed.
Product The Microsoft 365 products that are licensed to the user.
assigned
７ Note
By default, user-specific information like usernames, display names, groups, and sites is
hidden in usage reports. To learn how to display this information in usage reports, see Show
user, group, or site details in usage reports.
） Note: The author created this article with assistance from AI. Learn more
Last updated on 05/19/2026

--- Page 883 of 2193 ---
SharePoint site usage report
The SharePoint site usage report provides a high-level view of the value you get from SharePoint.
The report includes details about the total number of files that users store in SharePoint sites,
how many files are actively used, and the storage consumed across all these sites. You can drill
into the SharePoint site usage report to understand the trends and per-site level details for all
sites.
For general information about usage reports in the Microsoft 365 admin center, and to see a list
of all available reports, see Microsoft 365 admin center usage reports overview.
View the SharePoint site usage report
For information about the roles needed to view usage reports, see "Before you begin" in
Microsoft 365 admin center usage reports overview.
1. Go to the Microsoft 365 admin center .
2. In the navigation menu, select Reports. If you don't see Reports, select Show all, and then
select Reports.
3. Select Usage .
4. On the Usage page, under Reports, select SharePoint.
5. On the report page, select the Site usage tab.
Interpret the SharePoint site usage report
The SharePoint site usage report displays trends over the last 7, 30, 90, or 180 days. However, if
you select a particular day in the report, the table shows data for up to 28 days from the current
date (not the date the report was generated).

--- Page 884 of 2193 ---

To add or remove columns from the report, select Choose columns.

--- Page 885 of 2193 ---


--- Page 886 of 2193 ---
To export the report data into an Excel .csv file, select Export. This action exports the usage data
of all users and enables you to do simple sorting, filtering, and searching for further analysis.
ﾉ Expand table
Metric Description
Site URL The full URL of the site.
Deleted The deletion status of the site. The site is marked as deleted after at least seven days.
Site owner The username of the primary owner of the site.
Site owner The email address of the owner of the site.
principal name
Last activity date
(UTC)
Site sensitivity The sensitivity label on the site.
label ID
External sharing The value of the external sharing setting for the site. This value doesn't reflect changes
to the effective setting made by site sensitivity labels. If you use sensitivity labels, use
the data access governance reports to get the correct values.
Unmanaged The site access policy for unmanaged devices.
device policy
Geo location The Geo location of the site.
Files The number of files on the site.
Active files The number of active files on the site. A file is active if it was saved, synced, modified, or
shared within the specified time period.
NOTE: If files were removed during the specified time period for the report, the number
of active files shown in the report might be larger than the current number of files on
the site.
Storage used The amount of storage currently used on the site.
(MB)
Storage allocated The maximum amount of storage allocated for the site.
(MB)
Page views The number of times pages were viewed on the site.
Pages visited The number of unique pages that were visited on the site.

--- Page 887 of 2193 ---
Metric Description
Anonymous link The number of times documents or folders are shared using "Anyone with the link" on
count the site.
Company link The number of times documents or folders are shared using "People in org with the
count link" on the site.
Secure link for The number of times documents or folders are shared using "specific people" on the
guest count site.
Secure link for The number of times documents or folders are shared using "specific people" on the
member count site.
Root Web The template used for creating the site.
Template
NOTE: To filter the data by different site types, export the data and use the Root Web
Template column.
Site ID The site ID of the site.
７ Note
By default, user-specific information like usernames, display names, groups, and sites is
hidden in usage reports. To learn how to display this information in usage reports, see Show
user, group, or site details in usage reports.
７ Note
The SharePoint site URL doesn't display if Bring Your Own Key (BYOK) or Customer Lockbox
is enabled. If you meet the requirement, submit a request via ODSP Site URLs Displaying
Request . The site URL is visible within one week. If the requirement isn't met, you can use
PowerShell. To follow the steps, see Use PowerShell to resolve site URLs.
You might see differences between the sites listed in the Site usage report and the sites listed on
the Sites > Active sites page in the SharePoint admin center because certain site templates
and URLs aren't included as Active sites. For more information, see Manage sites in the
SharePoint admin center.
） Note: The author created this article with assistance from AI. Learn more
Last updated on 05/26/2026

--- Page 888 of 2193 ---
Microsoft 365 Reports in the admin center -
SharePoint storage
The SharePoint storage report provides an overview of your tenant's storage usage. It also offers
suggestions for storage optimization and future proofing your organization's file growth capacity.
７ Note
This report is available to non-Education tenants. Education tenants should refer to their
pooled storage report. For more information about viewing the pooled storage report, see
Pooled storage management.
View SharePoint storage report
For information about what permissioms are needed to view the report, see Microsoft 365 admin
center usage reports overview: Before you begin.
To view the SharePoint storage report, perform the following steps:
1. In the Microsoft 365 admin center, go to Reports > Usage. The Usage page appears.

2. From the left navigation pane, select SharePoint.
3. Select the Storage tab.
７ Note

--- Page 889 of 2193 ---
This report refreshes every 48-72 hours. Banner notifications appear when SharePoint usage
exceeds 80% of quota.
The SharePoint storage report contains the following sections:
Microsoft 365 Reports in the admin center - SharePoint storage
View SharePoint storage report
Optimize your organization's SharePoint storage
Total usage
Usage trend
Featured resources
Optimize your organization's SharePoint storage
Explore ways to manage your storage through setting file history limits, archiving inactive sites1,
and creating site lifecycle management policies1. To increase SharePoint storage capacity, buy
more storage in one-gigabyte increments. For more information about planning for SharePoint
storage, see SharePoint storage planning.
1 Additional licensing charges might apply.
Total usage
Review the total storage used by your tenant, total storage quota, and available storage quota.
For more information about SharePoint limits, see SharePoint limits - Service Descriptions.
Usage trend
Understand your tenant's storage growth trend and use the estimated future storage usage
based on past usage to make informed decisions on when to buy more storage or whether to
clean up usage.
７ Note
The historical trend represents usage across all sites and may slightly differ from the storage
bar, which indicates tenant-level quota consumption.
Featured resources

--- Page 890 of 2193 ---
For more information about options for managing storage, see site storage limits and version
history limits. Consider using Microsoft Graph Data connect for more in-depth SharePoint
storage insights.
Last updated on 05/06/2026

--- Page 891 of 2193 ---
Visio activity report
The Visio activity report provides insight into the activity of every Visio user in your organization.
For general information about usage reports in the Microsoft 365 admin center, and to see a list
of all available reports, see Microsoft 365 admin center usage reports overview.
View the Visio activity report
For information about the roles needed to view usage reports, see "Before you begin" in
Microsoft 365 admin center usage reports overview
1. Go to the Microsoft 365 admin center .
2. In the navigation menu, select Reports. If you don't see Reports, select Show all, and then
select Reports.
3. Select Usage .
4. On the Usage page, under Reports, select Visio.
Interpret the Visio activity report
The report displays trends over the last 7, 30, 90, or 180 days. If you select a particular day in the
report, the per-user data table updates to display users' usage for that day.
７ Note
The Visio report currently becomes available within 72 hours. Microsoft is working to reduce
the latency to 48 hours like other reports.


--- Page 892 of 2193 ---
Active users Shows the daily active users on each day over time. This metric includes Visio
for the web and Visio desktop app usage.
Platforms Shows the daily active users on each day over time, broken down by platform:
Web and Desktop.
Platforms (total users) Shows the aggregated active users for the selected time window,
broken down by platform: Web and Desktop.
To export the report data into an Excel .csv file, select Export. This action exports the usage data
of all users and enables you to do simple sorting, filtering, and searching for further analysis.
Visio licensed usage
Use this report to filter for Visio licensed usage. Each of the charts includes a filter to select the
user segment.
All users Shows the usage for Visio licensed users, including Visio Plan 1 and Visio Plan 2,
and seeded usage, such as using Visio that comes as part of a Microsoft 365 commercial
subscription.
Visio licensed users Shows the usage for Visio licensed users only, including Visio Plan 1
and Visio Plan 2.

７ Note
Learn more about Visio seeded capabilities , and about Visio plans and pricing .
User details table

--- Page 893 of 2193 ---
The report includes a table that shows the user details with active usage in your environment
during the selected time window.
The following table contains definitions of the metrics available in the report.
ﾉ Expand table
Metric Definition
User name The user principal name
Display name The full name of the user
Last activity The latest date the user in that row had activity in Visio, including any of the activities in
date the summary reports
Desktop This metric indicates whether that user used the Visio desktop app at least once during the
selected time window
Web This metric indicates whether that user used Visio for the web at least once during the
selected time window
７ Note
By default, user-specific information like usernames, display names, groups, and sites is
hidden in usage reports. To learn how to display this information in usage reports, see Show
user, group, or site details in usage reports.
） Note: The author created this article with assistance from AI. Learn more
Last updated on 05/19/2026

--- Page 894 of 2193 ---
Microsoft 365 Reports in the admin center -
Viva Engage activity report
As Microsoft 365 admin, the Reports dashboard shows you data on the usage of the products
within your organization. Check out activity reports in the admin center. With the Viva Engage
Activity report, you can understand the level of engagement of your organization with Viva
Engage by looking at the number of unique users using Viva Engage to post, like or read a
message and the amount of activity generated across the organization.
How do I get to the Viva Engage activity report?
1. In the admin center, go to the Reports, and then select Usage.
2. From the dashboard homepage, select Viva Engage in the left navigation.
Interpret the Viva Engage activity report
You can view the activities in the Viva Engage report by choosing the Activity tab.
Select Choose columns to add or remove columns from the report.

--- Page 895 of 2193 ---
You can also export the report data into an Excel .csv file by selecting the Export link. This exports
data of all users and enables you to do simple sorting and filtering for further analysis.
The Viva Engage activity report can be viewed for trends over the last 7 days, 30 days, 90 days,
or 180 days. However, if you select a particular day in the report, the table will show data for up
to 28 days from the current date (not the date the report was generated).
ﾉ Expand table
Metric Definition
Username The email address of the user. You can display the actual email address or make this field
anonymous. This grid shows users who logged into Viva Engage using the Microsoft 365
account or who logged into the network using single sign-on.
Display name The full name of the user. You can display the actual email address or make this field
anonymous.
User state One of three values: Activated, Deleted, or Suspended. These reports show data for active,
suspended, and deleted users. They do not reflect pending users, because pending users
cannot post, read, or like a message.

--- Page 896 of 2193 ---
Metric Definition
State change The date on which the user's state was changed in Viva Engage.
date (UTC)
Last activity The last date that the user posted, read, or liked a message.
date (UTC)
Posted The number of messages the user posted during the time period you specified.
Read The number of conversations that the user read during the time period you specified.
Liked The number of messages that the user liked during the time period you specified.
Product The products that are assigned to this user.
assigned
Last updated on 03/01/2024

--- Page 897 of 2193 ---
Microsoft 365 Reports in the admin center
- Viva Engage device usage report
03/01/2024
The Microsoft 365 Reports dashboard shows you the activity overview across the products in
your organization. It enables you to drill in to individual product level reports to give you more
granular insight about the activities within each product. Check out the Reports overview topic.
The Viva Engage device usage reports give you information about which devices your users are
using Viva Engage on. You can view the number of daily users by device type, and number of
users by device type. You can view both over a selected time period. You can also view details
per user.
How do I get to the Viva Engage device usage
report?
1. In the admin center, go to the Reports, and then select Usage.
2. From the dashboard homepage, select Viva Engage in the left navigation, then select
Device usage.
Interpret the Viva Engage device usage report
Select the Device usage tab to view the usage in the OneDrive report.
Select Choose columns to add or remove columns from the report.

--- Page 898 of 2193 ---
You also can export the report data into an Excel .csv file by selecting the Export link. This link
exports data of all users and enables you to do simple sorting and filtering for further analysis.
The Viva Engage device usage report can be viewed for trends over the last 7 days, 30 days, 90
days, or 180 days. However, if you select a particular day in the report, the table will show data
for up to 28 days from the current date (not the date the report was generated).
ﾉ Expand table
Metric Definition
Username The email address of the user. You can display the actual email address or make this field
anonymous. This grid shows users who logged in to Viva Engage using the Microsoft
365 account or who logged in to the network using single sign-on.
Display name The full name of the user. You can display the actual email address or make this field
anonymous.

--- Page 899 of 2193 ---
Metric Definition
User state One of three values: Active, Deleted, or Suspended. These reports show data for active,
suspended, and deleted users. They don't reflect pending users, because pending users
can't post, read, or like a message.
State change The date on which the user's state was changed in Viva Engage.
date (UTC)
Last activity The last date (UTC) that the user participated in a Viva Engage activity.
date (UTC)
Web Indicates if the user has used Viva Engage on the web.
Windows Indicates if the user has used Viva Engage on a Windows phone.
phone
Android Indicates if the user has used Viva Engage on an Android phone.
phone
iPhone Indicates if the user has used Viva Engage on an iPhone.
iPad Indicates if the user has used Viva Engage on an iPad.
other Indicates if the user has used Viva Engage on another client, which wasn't listed
previously. This includes Viva Engage Embed, SharePoint Web Part, Viva Engage, and
select Outlook emails.

--- Page 900 of 2193 ---
Viva Engage groups activity report
The Viva Engage groups activity report provides insights into the activity of Viva Engage groups
in your organization. You can also see how many Viva Engage groups are created and used.
For general information about usage reports in the Microsoft 365 admin center, and to see a list
of all available reports, see Microsoft 365 admin center usage reports overview.
View the Viva Engage groups activity report
For information about the roles needed to view usage reports, see "Before you begin" in
Microsoft 365 admin center usage reports overview
1. Go to the Microsoft 365 admin center .
2. In the navigation menu, select Reports. If you don't see Reports, select Show all, and then
select Reports.
3. Select Usage .
4. On the Usage page, under Reports, select Viva Engage, and then select the Groups activity
tab.
Interpret the Viva Engage groups activity report
The report displays trends over the last 7, 30, 90, or 180 days. However, if you select a particular
day in the report, the table shows data for up to 28 days from the current date, not the date the
report generated.

--- Page 901 of 2193 ---

To add or remove columns from the report, select Choose columns.


--- Page 902 of 2193 ---
To export the report data into an Excel .csv file, select Export. This action exports the usage data
of all users and enables you to do simple sorting, filtering, and searching for further analysis.
The following table contains definitions of the metrics available in the report.
ﾉ Expand table
Metric Definition
Group name The name of the group.
Group admin The name of the group administrator, or owner.
Deleted The number of deleted Viva Engage groups. If the group is deleted, but had activity in
the reporting period it shows up in the grid with this flag set to true.
Type The type of group, public or private.
Connected to Indicates whether the Viva Engage group is also a Microsoft 365 Group.
Office 365
Last activity date The latest date the group read, posted, or liked a message.
(UTC)
Members The number of members in the group.
Posted The number of messages posted in the Viva Engage group over the reporting period.
Read The number of conversations read in the Viva Engage group over the reporting period.
Liked The number of messages liked in the Viva Engage group over the reporting period.
Network name The full name of the network that the group belongs to.
７ Note
By default, user-specific information like usernames, display names, groups, and sites is
hidden in usage reports. To learn how to display this information in usage reports, see Show
user, group, or site details in usage reports.
） Note: The author created this article with assistance from AI. Learn more
Last updated on 05/19/2026

--- Page 903 of 2193 ---
Viva Goals activity report
The Viva Goals report helps you understand the activity and usage of Viva Goals in your
organization. It also helps you understand the level of collaboration by showing the active usage
and the number of objectives and key results (OKRs) created.
For general information about usage reports in the Microsoft 365 admin center, and to see a list
of all available reports, see Microsoft 365 admin center usage reports overview.
View the Viva Goals activity report
For information about the roles needed to view usage reports, see "Before you begin" in
Microsoft 365 admin center usage reports overview
1. Go to the Microsoft 365 admin center .
2. In the navigation menu, select Reports. If you don't see Reports, select Show all, and then
select Reports.
3. Select Usage .
4. On the Usage page, under Reports, select Viva Goals.
Interpret the Viva Goals activity report
The report displays trends over the last 7, 30, 90, or 180 days. If you select a particular day in the
report, the per user data table updates to display users' usage on that day. However, this feature
only works for the most recent 28 days.

--- Page 904 of 2193 ---

Active users shows the number of daily active users on each day over time. This count
includes Viva Goals on the web and Teams app usage.
Active self-service users shows the number of daily active users with self-service license
each day over time.
Active users by client type shows the number of daily active users on each day over time,
displayed by client type (Viva Goals for the Web, Viva Goals on Teams, Viva Goals on Azure
DevOps, and more).
User actions by activities shows the daily number of actions created or edited over time by
Viva Goals users. This count includes Viva Goals on all client types.
Active Viva Goals organizations shows the daily active organizations each day over time.
This count includes all the activities in a Viva Goals organization.
The report also has a table that shows activity for each Viva Goals user in your organization.
To add or remove columns from the report, select Choose columns.

--- Page 906 of 2193 ---

To export the report data into an Excel .csv file, select Export. This action exports the usage data
of all users and enables you to do simple sorting, filtering, and searching for further analysis.
User activity table
The following table contains definitions of the metrics available in the report.
ﾉ Expand table
Metric Definition
User name The user's principal name.
Display name The full name of the user.
Last activity date The latest date the user in that row had activity in Viva Goals, including any of the
activities.
Is self-serve trial Indicates whether the user has a self-serve trial license.
Microsoft Teams Indicates whether the user uses the Viva Goals app on Microsoft Teams.
Slack Indicates whether the user uses the Viva Goals integration on Slack.
Azure DevOps Indicates whether the user uses the Viva Goals integration on Azure DevOps.
Web Indicates whether the user uses Viva Goals on web.

--- Page 907 of 2193 ---
Metric Definition
Check-ins Number of check-ins done by the user on Viva Goals within the time range selected.
OKRs created Number of OKRs created by the user on Viva Goals within the time range selected.
Projects created Number of Projects created by the user on Viva Goals within the time range selected.
OKR engagement Number of reactions on the OKRs by the user on Viva Goals within the time range
selected.
Dashboards Number of Dashboards created by the user on Viva Goals within the time range
created selected.
７ Note
By default, user-specific information like usernames, display names, groups, and sites is
hidden in usage reports. To learn how to display this information in usage reports, see Show
user, group, or site details in usage reports.
） Note: The author created this article with assistance from AI. Learn more
Last updated on 05/19/2026

--- Page 908 of 2193 ---
Microsoft 365 Reports in the admin center
- Viva Insights activity
As a Microsoft 365 admin, the Reports dashboard shows you the activity overview across
various products in your organization. It enables you to drill in to get more granular insight
about the activities specific to each product. Check out the activity reports in the Microsoft 365
admin center.
For example, you can understand the adoption of Viva Insights by looking at the active users.
Additionally, you can find a deployment guide to further boost adoption in your organization.
How do I get to the Viva Insights activity report?
1. In the admin center, go to the Reports, select Usage, and then select Overview.
2. Find Viva Insights activity.
Interpret the Microsoft 365 Apps usage report
You can get a view into your user's Viva Insights activity by looking at the Active users chart.
The Viva Insights active user chart can be viewed for trends over the last 7 days, 30 days, 90
days, or 180 days.

--- Page 909 of 2193 ---
Active users are users that have engaged with at least one Viva Insights feature that day. This
includes dwelling for more than 20 seconds on any Viva Insight email, clicking or taking an
action on any Insights surfacing, or visiting the Viva Insights app in Teams, Outlook add-in, or
web dashboards.
View the Viva Insights deployment guide
You can click Boost adoption of Viva Insights to view the Viva Insights Deployment guide.
Last updated on 12/18/2025

--- Page 910 of 2193 ---
Microsoft 365 Reports in the admin
center - Viva Learning activity
Article • 03/01/2024
As a Microsoft 365 admin, the Reports dashboard shows you the activity overview across
various products in your organization. It enables you to drill in to get more granular
insight about the activities specific to each product. Check out the activity reports in the
Microsoft 365 admin center.
For example, you can understand the activity of your licensed Viva Learning users by
looking at their interactions. It also helps you to understand the type of features being
used within the Learning App.
How do I get to the Viva Learning activity
report?
1. In the admin center, go to the Reports > Usage page.
2. From the dashboard homepage, select Viva Learning in the left navigation.
Interpret the Microsoft 365 Apps usage report
You can get a view into your user's Viva Learning activity by looking at the Active users
and User activities charts.
Active users – Shows you the number of active users over time. For example, you
can use it to find the number of active users in your organization on a specific day
over the past 30 days.
User activities – Shows you the number of user activities, such as viewed featured
content, learning tabs pinned, viewed learning objects, consumed learning objects,
recommendations made, and bookmarks.

--- Page 911 of 2193 ---
Feedback
Was this page helpful?  Yes  No
Provide product feedback

--- Page 912 of 2193 ---
Microsoft Adoption Score
Summarize this article for me
７ Note
Technology experiences retirement (January 2026) Starting January 22, 2026, the Microsoft
365 admin center will retire the Technology experiences score and its three categories,
Network connectivity, Microsoft 365 Apps health, and Endpoint analytics from the
Adoption Score report. This change rolls out and completes in February 2026.
After this change, the overall Adoption Score is equal to the People experiences score.
The People experiences score measures end user progress toward embedding Microsoft
365 and Copilot into day-to-day productivity workflows.
As part of this change, the maximum possible Adoption Score changes from 900 to 600.
Admins and report readers who regularly use the Adoption Score see a change to the
total score value when the update reaches their tenant. End users aren't impacted by this
change.
The Adoption Score supports the journey to digital transformation with insights into how your
organization uses Microsoft 365. You can compare your organization's score to baselines from
organizations similar in size to yours.
The Adoption Score provides:
Metrics to help you see where you are on your digital transformation journey.
Insights about the data to help you identify opportunities to improve productivity and
satisfaction in your organization.
Recommended actions you can take to help your organization use Microsoft 365
products efficiently.
Categories: Quantifies how the organization works using Microsoft 365 categories like
content collaboration, mobility, communication, meetings, teamwork, and AI adoption.
For each of the mentioned categories, we look at public research to identify some best
practices and associated benefits in the form of organizational effectiveness. For example,
Forrester research has shown that when people collaborate and share content in the
cloud (instead of emailing attachments), they can save up to 100 minutes a week.
Furthermore, we quantify the use of these best practices in your organization to help you
see where you are on your digital transformation journey.

--- Page 913 of 2193 ---
To understand more about options to configure for your organization, see privacy
controls for Adoption Score.
７ Note
All insights are calculated using data at the organizational level, not the individual level.
Adoption Score prerequisites
You must have a Microsoft 365 for business or Office 365 for enterprise subscription.
７ Note
You don't need a license to Viva Insights to use the Adoption Score features.
The Adoption Score report is only available in the Microsoft 365 admin center. You can access
the report only if you have one of the following roles:
Global Administrator
Exchange Administrator
SharePoint Administrator
Skype for Business Administrator
Teams Service Administrator
Teams Communications Administrator
Global Reader
Reports Reader
AI Report Reader
Usage Summary Reports Reader
User Experience Success Manager
Organizational Messages Writer Role
Ｕ Caution
Global Administrators have almost unlimited access to your organization's settings and
most of its data. To help keep your organization secure, we recommend that you limit the
number of Global Administrators as much as possible.
The role-based access control model for Adoption Score helps organizations further digital
transformation efforts with Microsoft 365 by providing the flexibility to assign roles to IT
professionals within an organization.

--- Page 914 of 2193 ---
Microsoft is committed to protecting individual privacy. Privacy controls for Adoption Score
explains the controls we provide you, as your organization's IT administrator, to ensure that the
information is actionable while not compromising the trust you place in Microsoft.
You can access the experience from the Microsoft 365 admin center under Reports > Adoption
Score.
７ Note
This feature isn't available in GCC High, GCC, and DOD tenants.
How the score is calculated
Your Adoption Score is based on the combined scores of five categories (six categories if you
enabled Copilot licenses). Each category is weighted equally, with a total of 100 points. The
highest possible Adoption Score is 600.
Score categories
Communication (100 points)
Meetings (100 points)
Content collaboration (100 points)
Teamwork (100 points)
Mobility (100 points)
AI Adoption (100 points) if Microsoft 365 Copilot licenses are enabled
Total possible = 600 points
In each score category, the key indicators show how your organization is using Microsoft 365
in its journey towards digital transformation. You can see 28-day and 180-day views of the key
activities. The report also provides supporting metrics that aren't part of the score calculation
but are important for helping you identify underlying usage statistics and configurations that
you can address.
The Adoption Score includes data from Exchange, SharePoint, OneDrive, Teams, Word, Excel,
PowerPoint, OneNote, Outlook, Viva Engage, and Skype.
Your organization's score is updated daily and reflects user actions completed in the last 28
days (including the current day).
Interpreting your organization's Adoption Score

--- Page 915 of 2193 ---
The Adoption Score home page shows your organization's total score and score history. It also
shows the primary insight for each category.

７ Note
Adoption Score sub-scores are computed on different schedules. Your score may update
over the first few days as all sub-scores become available. This is expected behavior. All
sub-scores typically arrive within 3 days, but occasional delays of 4–5 days may occur. If a
sub-score is delayed beyond 7 days, you will receive a notification in the Service Health
Dashboard in the Microsoft 365 admin center.
Your organization's score appears as a percent value and in points. You can see your points in
the numerator and the maximum possible points in the denominator.
Peer benchmarks show you how your organization's score compares with organizations like
yours. The peer benchmark is calculated as the average of measures within a set of similar
organizations. The set of organizations is composed of organizations in your region with a
similar number of licensed users, types of licenses, industry, and tenure with Microsoft 365.
７ Note

--- Page 916 of 2193 ---
Microsoft uses internal data to determine the industry that an organization maps to.
Tenants under a parent organization map to the same industry as the parent organization.
Organizations can't view or modify industry mappings.
Category details pages
Each category details page shows the primary insight and supporting metrics. It also shows
related research and actions you can take to drive change in your organization. Research
supports the importance and rationale behind the primary insights for each category. For more
information, read the Forrester report .
The details pages are:
Content collaboration
Communication
Meetings
Mobility
Teamwork
AI adoption
Group level aggregates
The group-level filters help admins and adoption strategists understand how different groups,
based on data from Microsoft Entra ID, are performing. Use the filters to provide higher
granularity of insights and actions.
Learn more about Group Level Aggregates.
Adoption Score organizational messages
Organizational Messages is a new feature added to Adoption Score that increases the
actionability of admins to reach employees and drive adoption awareness. For example, to
improve the content collaboration score, admins can send notifications to encourage
employees who weren't actively using cloud attachments before to use the feature when
they're about to attach a physical attachment in Outlook. Currently, admins can send messages
to drive the adoption scenarios for OneDrive SharePoint, Teams Chat, using @mention in
Outlook, and cloud attachments in Outlook.
Learn more about Adoption Score Organizational Messages.

--- Page 917 of 2193 ---
Provide feedback on Adoption Score
Share your thoughts about Adoption Score and your ideas about how to improve it. Use the
Feedback sections within the product and reach out to the Adoption Score team at
adoptscorefeedback@microsoft.com.
Related content
Monitor Microsoft 365 activity by using reports (article)
Enable Microsoft 365 usage analytics (article)
Overview of the Microsoft 365 admin center (video)
Last updated on 03/11/2026

--- Page 918 of 2193 ---
Content collaboration
Adoption Score provides insights into your organization's digital transformation journey
through its use of Microsoft 365 and the technology experiences that support it. Your
organization's score reflects technology experience measurements and can be compared to
benchmarks from organizations similar to yours. To learn more, check out the Adoption Score
overview and read Microsoft's Privacy Statement .
Prerequisites
To get started with Content collaboration insights, people in your organization need to be
licensed for:
OneDrive
SharePoint
Exchange Online
For more information, see assign licenses to users.
After people have been active in the above products at least once in the last 28 days, you will
start to see the insights.
Why your organization's content collaboration
score matters
A key aspect of digital transformation is how people collaborate in files. With your content on
Microsoft 365, people access, create, modify, and collaborate on content with other people
from any location. Research shows that when people collaborate with online files, each person
saves an average of 100 minutes per week.
How we calculate the content collaboration score
We provide a primary insight that contains the key metrics for content collaboration in your
organization. Then, a scoring framework detailed below is used for these metrics to calculate
your organization's score.
７ Note
On April 22, 2021, we changed how the collaborators metric is calculated. This affects the
primary insight, the file collaboration insight, and the way the content collaboration

--- Page 919 of 2193 ---
score is measured. This change helps reduce noise in the data from non-human agents (or
bots) from Microsoft and other third-party applications, resulting in a more accurate and
actionable score.
Primary insight
Microsoft OneDrive and SharePoint help people to easily create, read, and discover their
individual and shared content in Microsoft 365 from across devices and applications. They also
allow people to securely share and collaborate on content. The primary insight contains
information from everyone who can use OneDrive and SharePoint. Additionally it breaks down
the details about how many people read, create, and collaborate on content stored in
OneDrive and SharePoint.
Types considered for this information include Word, Excel, PowerPoint, OneNote, and PDF files.
1. Header: Shows the percentage of people in your org who have access to OneDrive or
SharePoint who are collaborating on content.
2. Body: Provides more information on how the behaviors of reading and creating files
online are linked to collaborating on files.
3. Visualization (current state):
Horizontal bars where the blue-colored portions represent the percentage of people
enabled for file collaboration through OneDrive or SharePoint who have been
readers, creators, or collaborators on online files in the last 28 days.
They're defined as follows:
Readers: People who access or download online files in OneDrive or SharePoint.
Creators: People who create, modify, upload, sync, check in, copy, or move online

--- Page 920 of 2193 ---
OneDrive or SharePoint files.
Collaborators: People who collaborate with online files by using OneDrive or
SharePoint. Two people are collaborators if one of them reads or edits an online
Microsoft 365 app or PDF after the other person has created or modified it, within a
28-day window.
７ Note
The files considered in the visualization are Word, Excel, PowerPoint, OneNote,
or PDF files that are online and saved to OneDrive or SharePoint.
Highlight (numerator/denominator) of the fraction is used to calculate the
percentage expressed in each of the horizontal bars.
Readers:
Numerator: Number of people who access or download online files in
OneDrive or SharePoint in the last 28 days
Denominator: Number of people who had access to OneDrive or SharePoint
for at least 1 of the last 28 days
Creators:
Numerator: Number of people who create, modify, upload, sync, check in,
copy, or move online files in OneDrive or SharePoint in the last 28 days
Denominator: Number of people who have had access to OneDrive or
SharePoint for at least 1 of the last 28 days.
Collaborators:
Numerator: Number of people who have collaborated on online files in
OneDrive or SharePoint in the last 28 days
Denominator: Number of people who have had access to for OneDrive or
SharePoint for at least 1 of the last 28 days
Peer benchmark value for each of readers, creators, and collaborators is also shown
as a percentage. In other words, the value of the number of creators is shown as a
percentage of the number of people who have access to OneDrive or SharePoint.
4. Link to resources: Select this link to view collated videos, and other related help content.
Trend visualization of primary insight
The trend visualizations chart shows the trend-line of the primary insight key metrics for
readers, creators, and collaborators, over the last 180 days. Each data point on the chart is an
aggregate of activity for the last 28 days. Each creator data-point provides a count of all people
who were tagged as creators within the last 28 days for each date on the x axis.

--- Page 921 of 2193 ---
Scoring framework
The content collaboration score for your organization measures at an aggregate (organization)
level whether people are consistently reading, creating, or collaborating on online Microsoft
365 files such as Word, Excel, PowerPoint, OneNote, or PDFs, or in OneDrive or SharePoint.
Scores are not provided at the individual user level.
Explore how your organization collaborates
We also provide you with information that helps you gain visibility into how your organization
collaborates on content. These additional metrics don't directly contribute to your Adoption
Score but help you create an action plan as part of your digital transformation to help optimize
the way people work.
Creating files in OneDrive or SharePoint

--- Page 922 of 2193 ---
1. Header: Highlights the percentage of people active on apps in Microsoft 365 who create
files on OneDrive or SharePoint.
2. Body: Provides information about the value of content creation in OneDrive and
SharePoint.
3. Visualization: The breakdown in the visualization represents the extent to which people
who are using apps in Microsoft 365 to create files in OneDrive and SharePoint, as
follows:
OneDrive: The blue (colored) portion of the bar and the fraction on the bar
represent the percentage of people active on apps in Microsoft 365 creating content
on OneDrive as follows:
Numerator: The number of people who create, modify, upload, sync, check in,
copy, or move online Microsoft 365 files in OneDrive within the last 28 days.
Denominator: The number of people who have access to OneDrive or SharePoint
and access office files within the last 28 days.
SharePoint: The blue (colored) portion of the bar and the fraction on the bar
represent the percentage of people who are active in apps in Microsoft 365 and
create content on SharePoint as:
Numerator: The number of people who create, modify, upload, sync, check in,
copy, or move online Microsoft 365 files (Microsoft Word, Excel, PowerPoint, or
OneNote files) on SharePoint within the last 28 days.

--- Page 923 of 2193 ---
Denominator: The number of people who have access to OneDrive or SharePoint
and have accessed Microsoft 365 files within the last 28 days.
4. Link to resources: Select this link to view help content.
Use of attachments in email
Use of attachments in email Understand how many users are attaching physical files in email
rather than links to content in the cloud, and monitor the reduction of this number over time.
1. Header: Highlights the percentage of people who use attachments in emails that were
not saved to online files.
2. Body: Provides information about the value of sharing links to online files from a
collaboration and security perspective.
3. Visualization: The breakdown in the visualization is meant to represent the extent to
which people who are attaching content in emails are using different modes (files not
saved to online files, links to online files):
Attach files: The blue (colored) portion of the bar and the fraction
(numerator/denominator) on the bar represents the percentage of people using
attachments in emails.

--- Page 924 of 2193 ---
Numerator: The number of people who attach files to email that weren't saved to
online file within the last 28 days.
Denominator: The number of people who have had access to Exchange and
OneDrive, SharePoint, or both, and sent at least one attachment within the last 28
days.
Links to online files: The blue (colored) portion of the bar and the fraction
(numerator/denominator) on the bar represent the percentage of people using
attachments and attaching links to files in emails.
Numerator: The number of people attaching links to online files to emails within
the last 28 days.
Denominator: The number of people who have had access to Exchange and
OneDrive, SharePoint, or both, and sent at least one attachment within the last 28
days.
4. Link to resources: Select this link to view help content.
Sharing of online files
1. Header: Highlights the percentage of people who have access to for OneDrive or
SharePoint who are sharing files externally.
2. Body: Provides information about the admins' ability to change the file- sharing settings
in the organization to enable the level of collaboration best suited to your organization.
3. Visualization: Represents the extent to which people who have access to OneDrive or
SharePoint are sharing files internally or externally:

--- Page 925 of 2193 ---
Externally: The blue (colored) portion of the bar and the fraction
(numerator/denominator) on the bar represent the percentage of people who have
access to OneDrive or SharePoint and are sharing files externally.
Numerator: The number of people who have shared files externally within the last
28 days.
Denominator: The total number of people who have had access to OneDrive or
SharePoint for at least 1 of the last 28 days.
Internally only: The blue (colored) portion of the bar and the fraction
(numerator/denominator) on the bar represent the percentage of people who have
access to OneDrive or SharePoint and are sharing files internally only.
Numerator: The number of people who have shared files internally only within
the last 28 days.
Denominator: The number of people who have had access to Exchange and
OneDrive, SharePoint, or both, and sent at least one attachment within the last 28
days.
4. Link to resources: Select this link to view help content.
Number of files collaborated on

--- Page 926 of 2193 ---
1. Header: Highlights the percentage of people who have access to OneDrive or SharePoint
who are collaborating on 4 or more files.
2. Body: Provides information about how people can leverage online files for better
collaboration.
3. Visualization: Shows a distribution of the people who have access to OneDrive or
SharePoint, based on the number of files they collaborate on. This is shown through the
following 4 categories (for each, the blue portion of the bar and the fraction represent the
percentage of people who have access to OneDrive or SharePoint that fall into that
category):
No collaboration:
Numerator: Number of people not collaborating on any files in the last 28 days.
Denominator: Total number of people who have access to OneDrive or
SharePoint for at least 1 of the last 28 days.
Collaboration on 1-3 files:
Numerator: Number of people collaborating on 1-3 files in the last 28 days.
Denominator: Total number of people who have had access to OneDrive or
SharePoint for at least 1 of the last 28 days.
Collaboration on 4-10 files:
Numerator: Number of people collaborating on 4-10 files in the last 28 days.
Denominator: Total number of people who have had access to OneDrive or
SharePoint for at least 1 of the last 28 days.
Collaboration on 11 or more files:
Numerator: Number of people collaborating on 11 or more files in the last 28
days.
Denominator: Total number of people who have had access to OneDrive or
SharePoint for at least 1 of the last 28 days.
4. Link to resources: Select this link to view help content.
Network performance strength for OneDrive and SharePoint

--- Page 927 of 2193 ---
1. Header: Highlights the percentage of devices out of all tested that has poor network
connection to OneDrive and SharePoint.
2. Body: Provides information about why network connection performance important for
collaboration.
3. Visualization: Shows a percentage of devices with different levels of network connectivity
performance related to OneDrive and SharePoint:
81-100 (best): The dark green (colored) portion of the bar represents the percentage
of devices with the best performance.
61-80: The green (colored) portion of the bar represents the percentage of devices
with a network performance score between 60-80.
41-60: The orange (colored) portion of the bar represents the percentage of devices
with a network performance score between 40-60.
21-40: The red (colored) portion of the bar represents the percentage of devices
with a network performance score between 20-40.
0-20: The dark red (colored) portion of the bar represents the percentage of devices
with the worst network performance score between 0-20.

--- Page 928 of 2193 ---
View content collaboration trends over time
For each of the insights above, you can see how the metrics trend over time by selecting an
option from the dropdown shown below:
After you select an option, the charts in the report will update to show a trend over time rather
than a snapshot of the past month.
Related content
Microsoft 365 apps health – Technology experiences (article)
Communication – People experiences (article)
Meetings – People experiences (article)
Mobility – People experiences (article)
Privacy controls for Adoption Score (article)
Teamwork – People experiences (article)
Last updated on 01/23/2026

--- Page 929 of 2193 ---
Communication insights score
Adoption Score supports the journey to digital transformation with insights about how your
organization uses Microsoft 365 and the technology experiences that support it. Your
organization’s score reflects technology experience measurements and can be compared to
benchmarks from organizations similar in size to yours. To learn more, check out the Adoption
Score overview and read Microsoft's Privacy Statement .
Prerequisites
To get started with Communication insights, people in your organization need to be licensed
for:
Microsoft Teams
Viva Engage
Exchange Online
For more information, see assign licenses to users.
After people have been active in the above products at least once in the last 28 days, you will
start to see the insights.
Why your organization’s Communication score
matters
Microsoft understands that people have different communication needs. To get a quick
response to a question, you might choose to send an instant message. If you want to send
status updates to your leadership, you may choose an email message. To reach a broader
audience, you may choose to post a community message. Microsoft 365 enables this flexibility
in communication modes to fit everyone's needs. Research shows that using real-time
communication tools creates a more unified organization and builds morale, regardless of
location.
How we calculate the communication score
For Communication, we provide a primary insight, which contains the key metrics associated
with communication in your organization, combined with a scoring framework for using these
metrics to calculate your organization's score.
Primary insight

--- Page 930 of 2193 ---
Microsoft 365 provides people the flexibility to fit everyone's communication style by offering
multiple modes. The primary insight provides a measure of people in your org that are using
multiple modes to communicate.
1. Header: Provides the key metric of people using more than one communication mode,
namely:
Sending emails through Exchange
Sending messages through Teams
Posting on communities in Viva Engage
This key metric is shown as a percentage of all people who are using two or more of
Exchange, Teams, or Viva Engage.
2. Body: Provides more information on how flexibility in the modes of communication is
valuable to people in your org.
3. Visualization of current state:
Horizontal bar where the blue portion represents the percentage expressed in the
header
Highlights the (numerator/denominator) used for computing the percentage
expressed in the header:
Numerator: # of people using more than one communication mode in the last 28
days
Denominator: # of people marked as enabled for more than one communication
product in the last 28 days
Peer Benchmark value of the key metric is also shown as a percentage
4. View communication resources: Clicking here would enlist all the support content in the
form of videos/articles related to Communication. From these you can navigate to the
custom playlist for Communication and subsequently, for all Adoption Score categories.

--- Page 931 of 2193 ---
Trend visualization of primary insight
This chart provides the trend of numerator of the key metric in the primary insight – that is, the
number of people in your org using more than one communication mode over the last 180
days. Here that the daily value is an aggregate of the number of people who use multiple
forms of communication over the last 28 days.
Scoring model
The communication score for your organization measures at an aggregate (organization) level
whether people are consistently communicating using multiple modes among email, chat, and
community posts over a 28-day window.
Scores are not provided at the individual user level.
Explore how your organization communicates
We also provide you with information that helps you gain visibility into how your organization
communicates. These additional metrics don't directly influence your Adoption Score, but can
help you create an action plan as a part of your digital transformation.
Breakdown of communication by modes

--- Page 932 of 2193 ---
1. Header: Highlights the goal of the insight to provide a detailed breakdown across the
different communication modes being considered within Communication.
2. Body: Provides information on the value of using different modes for sharing knowledge.
3. Visualization: The breakdown represents the use for each mode. The colored portion and
the fraction on each bar represent the number of people sending emails,messages, or
community posts as a percentage of number of people enabled for that mode:
People sending emails: The colored portion and the fraction represent the
percentage of users enabled for Exchange who are sending emails. This fraction is
constructed from:
Numerator: People sending emails in the last 28 days.
Denominator: People enabled for Exchange in the last 28 days.
People sending messages in Microsoft Teams: The colored portion and the fraction
represent the percentage of users enabled for Microsoft Teams who are sending
messages. This fraction is constructed from:
Numerator: People sending messages on Microsoft Teams in the last 28 days.
Denominator: People enabled for Microsoft Teams in the last 28 days.
People posting in communities: The colored portion and the fraction represent the
percentage of users enabled for Viva Engage that are posting in communities. This

--- Page 933 of 2193 ---
fraction is constructed from:
Numerator: People posting in Viva Engage communities in the last 28 days.
Denominator: People enabled for Viva Engage in the last 28 days.
4. View related content: Select this link to view collated videos, and other related help
content.
@mentions in emails
1. Header: Highlights the increase in response rate for new email threads started in the last
28 days when they contain @mentions.
2. Body: Provides information on the value of using @mentions in emails. Additionally,
people using @mentions is expressed as a percentage of all users who have sent an email
in the last 28 days.
3. Visualization: Breaks down the response rate for new email threads based on whether
they had @mentions or not:
Responses to emails with @mentions: The colored portion and the fraction
represent the response rate for new email threads containing @mentions. This
fraction is constructed from:
Numerator: New email threads containing @mentions that were started and
received a response in the last 28 days.

--- Page 934 of 2193 ---
Denominator: New email threads containing @mentions that were started in the
last 28 days.
Responses to emails without @mentions: The colored portion and the fraction
represent the response rate for new email threads containing @mentions. This
fraction is constructed from:
Numerator: New email threads that do not contain @mentions, which were
started and also received a response in the last 28 days.
Denominator: New email threads not containing @mentions that were started in
the last 28 days.
4. View related content: Select this link to view collated videos, and other related help
content.
Breakdown of messages by type in Microsoft Teams
1. Header: Highlights the people who sent channel messages as a percentage of people
who sent any kind of message (including chat and channel messages) in the last 28 days.
2. Body: Provides information on the value of using channel messages within Microsoft
Teams.
3. Visualization: Breaks down the use of chat and channel messages:

--- Page 935 of 2193 ---
People sending chat messages: The colored portion and the fraction represent the
use of chat messages within people who sent messages on Microsoft Teams. The
fraction is constructed from:
Numerator: People who sent chat messages on Microsoft Teams in the last 28
days.
Denominator: People who sent messages on Microsoft Teams in the last 28 days.
People sending Channel messages: The colored portion and the fraction represent
the use of channel messages within people sending messages on Microsoft Teams.
The fraction is constructed from:
Numerator: People who sent channel messages on Microsoft Teams in the last 28
days.
Denominator: People who sent messages on Microsoft Teams in the last 28 days.
4. View related content: Select this link to view collated videos, and other related help
content.
Questions and Answers in Viva Engage
1. Header: Highlights the posts marked as questions on Viva Engage that have received an
answer marked as "Best answer" as a percentage of all posts marked as questions on Viva
Engage in the last 28 days.

--- Page 936 of 2193 ---
2. Body: Provides information on the value of using questions and answers in Viva Engage
to share knowledge.
3. Visualization: Breaks down the use of the questions and answers feature in your
organization:
Questions: The colored portion of the bar and associated number represents the
total number of posts marked as questions in the last 28 days.
Questions with answers: The colored portion of the bar and the associated number
represents the number of posts marked as questions and have received answers in
the last 28 days.
Questions with best answers: The colored portion of the bar and the associated
number represents the number of posts that were marked as questions and have
also received a "best answer" in the last 28 days.
4. View related content: Select this link to view collated videos, and other related help
content.
View communication trends over time
For each of the insights above, you can see how the metrics trend over time by selecting an
option from the dropdown shown below:

After you select an option, the charts in the report will update to show a trend over time rather
than a snapshot of the past month.
Related content
Microsoft 365 apps health – Technology experiences (article)
Content collaboration – People experiences (article)
Meetings – People experiences (article)

--- Page 937 of 2193 ---
Mobility – People experiences (article)
Privacy controls for Adoption Score (article)
Teamwork – People experiences (article)
Last updated on 01/23/2026

--- Page 938 of 2193 ---
Mobility insights score
Adoption Score provides insights into your organization's digital transformation journey through
its use of Microsoft 365 and the technology experiences that support it. Your organization's score
reflects technology experience measurements and can be compared to benchmarks from
organizations similar to yours. To learn more, check out the Adoption Score overview and read
Microsoft's Privacy Statement .
Prerequisites
To get started with Mobility insights, users in your organization need to be licensed for:
Microsoft Teams
Exchange Online
Word
Excel
PowerPoint
OneNote
For more information, see assign licenses to users.
When users are active in these products at least once in the last 28 days, you start to see the
insights.
Why your organization's mobility score matters
A fundamental pillar of organizational productivity is how well users are able to work flexibly
from wherever they are. With Microsoft 365, users can stay connected with Outlook, Microsoft
Teams, and Viva Engage. Users can also seamlessly collaborate on content by using Word, Excel,
PowerPoint, and OneNote from any location, and platforms.
How the mobility score is calculated
Primary insight in the experience that contains the key metrics for this category in your
organization is provided. Then a scoring framework is used for these metrics to calculate your
organization's score.
Primary insight

--- Page 939 of 2193 ---
Microsoft 365 lets users work flexibly across apps, including Microsoft Outlook, Word, Excel,
PowerPoint, OneNote, Microsoft Teams, Viva Engage, and Skype for Business. Users can also work
from anywhere by using a seamless experience across desktop, web, and mobile platforms. The
primary insight looks at the products that are enabled for users in your organization - and how
many of these users are active on at least two platforms.

1. Header: Shows the percentage of users in your org who:
Have access to any of Microsoft 365 Apps.
Are active on at least one of these applications on more than one platform.
2. Body: Provides more information on how the use of these applications on multiple
platforms can promote efficiency and satisfaction.
3. Visualization (current state): Shows how many users use more than one platform across
desktop, mobile, and web for at least one Microsoft 365 as follows:
Horizontal bar where the blue (colored) portion represents the percentage expressed
in the header.
The fraction on the bar highlights the (numerator/denominator) used for calculating
the percentage in the header.
Numerator: The number of users in your org using any application within Microsoft
Outlook, Word, Excel, PowerPoint, OneNote and Microsoft Teams, Viva Engage, and
Skype on more than one platform from desktop, web, and mobile in the last 28
days.
Denominator: The number of users licensed for Microsoft 365 Apps, Exchange, Viva
Engage, Microsoft Teams, or Skype for at least one of the last 28 days.
The peer benchmark value for the key metric is also shown as a percentage.

--- Page 940 of 2193 ---
4. View Mobility resources: To view help content, select this link.
Trend visualization of the primary insight

This chart shows the trend-line, where the numerator is the number of users who used apps over
the last 180 days. Each data point on the line chart is an aggregate of activity for the last 28 days.
Each data point provides a count of all users in your org using an application across at least two
platforms in the last 28 days for each date on the x-axis.
Scoring framework
The mobility score for your organization measures at an organization (aggregate) level whether
users are using Microsoft 365 Apps - Outlook, Teams, Word, Excel, PowerPoint, OneNote, Viva
Engage, and Skype - across the different platforms - desktop, web, and mobile.
The scores aren't provided at the individual user level.
Explore how your org works across platforms
and locations
We also provide you with information that helps you gain visibility into how users in your
organization work across platforms. These additional metrics don't directly contribute to your
Adoption Score, but help you create an action plan as part of your digital transformation.
Use of Outlook across platforms

--- Page 941 of 2193 ---

1. Header: Shows the percentage of users active on Outlook who are using Outlook on
multiple platforms.
2. Body: Provides information about the value of using Outlook on mobile devices to help stay
connected from anywhere on email.
3. Visualization: Shows the percentage of users who are active on Outlook and are using
either one or more than one platform:
Multiple platforms:
Numerator: The number of users who used Outlook on at least two platforms from
desktop, mobile, or web in the last 28 days.
Denominator: The number of users who used Outlook at least once in the last 28
days.
Desktop only:
Numerator: The number of users who used Outlook on only a desktop platform in
the last 28 days.

--- Page 942 of 2193 ---
Denominator: The number of users who used Outlook at least once in the last 28
days
Web only:
Numerator: The number of users who used Outlook on only a web platform in the
last 28 days.
Denominator: The number of users who used Outlook at least once in the last 28
days.
Mobile only:
Numerator: Number of users who used Outlook on only a mobile platform in the
last 28 days.
Denominator: Number of users who used Outlook at least once in the last 28 days.
Use of Teams across platforms

1. Header: Shows what percentage of users who are active on Microsoft Teams are using it on
multiple platforms.

--- Page 943 of 2193 ---
2. Body: Provides information about the value of using Teams on mobile devices to help users
stay up to date on messages while working from any location.
3. Visualization: Shows the percentage of users active on Microsoft Teams who are using it on
either a single platform, or multiple ones:
Multiple platforms:
Numerator: The number of users who used Teams in the last 28 days on 2 or more
of the following platforms: desktop, mobile, or web.
Denominator: The number of users who used Microsoft Teams at least once in the
last 28 days.
Desktop only:
Numerator: The number of users who used Microsoft Teams only on a desktop
platform in the last 28 days
Denominator: The number of users who used Teams at least once in the last 28
days
Web only:
Numerator: The number of users who used Microsoft Teams only on a web
platform in the last 28 days
Denominator: The number of users who used Microsoft Teams at least once in the
last 28 days
Mobile only:
Numerator: The number of users who used Microsoft Teams only on a mobile
platform in the last 28 days
Denominator: The number of users who used Teams at least once in the last 28
days
Use of Microsoft 365 productivity apps across platforms

--- Page 944 of 2193 ---

1. Header: Shows the percentage of users active on Microsoft 365 Apps (Word, Excel,
PowerPoint, and OneNote) on multiple platforms.
2. Body: Provides information about the value of providing users in your organization the
flexibility to access their files from anywhere.
3. Visualization: The grouped vertical is meant to represent the number of users who are using
each of the apps considered - Word, Excel, PowerPoint, and OneNote - across single or
multiple platforms. For each of these applications, bars represent the following information:
Multiple platforms: The number of users active on an app across at least two
platforms in the last 28 days.
Desktop only: The number of users active on app on only the desktop platform in the
last 28 days.

--- Page 945 of 2193 ---
Web only: The number of users active on app on only the web platform in the last 28
days.
Mobile only: The number of users active on app on only mobile platform in the last 28
days.
Remote work

1. Header: Shows the percentage of users working only from home or location outside of their
company's network.
2. Body: Highlights the importance of facilitating remote work for users without access to your
organization's physical offices.
3. Visualization: Shows trend-line for daily percentage of users who only work remotely and
users who work onsite. Users are considered onsite if they perform at least three hours of
activity in Microsoft 365 Apps in a day.

--- Page 946 of 2193 ---
View mobility trends over time
For each of the insights in this article, you can see how the metrics trend over time by selecting
an option from the Data View dropdown menu.

After you select an option, the charts in the report will update to show a trend over time rather
than a snapshot of the past month.
Related content
Microsoft 365 apps health - Technology experiences.
Communication - users experiences.
Content collaboration - users experiences.
Meetings - users experiences.
Privacy controls for Adoption Score.
Teamwork - users experiences.
Last updated on 05/01/2026

--- Page 947 of 2193 ---
Teamwork
Adoption Score provides insights into your organization's digital transformation journey through
its use of Microsoft 365 and the technology experiences that support it. Your organization's score
reflects technology experience measurements and can be compared to benchmarks from
organizations similar to yours. To learn more, check out the Adoption Score overview and read
Microsoft's Privacy Statement .
Prerequisites
To get started with teamwork insights, users in your organization need to be licensed for:
Microsoft Teams.
SharePoint.
Exchange Online.
For more information, see assign licenses to users.
When users are active in these products at least once in the last 28 days, you start to see the
insights.
Why your org's teamwork score matters
A fundamental pillar for organizational productivity is when a group of users with a common goal
work with each other and with common resources for collective success. Research indicates that
when users share information and collaborate in shared workspaces, they save up to 4 hours a
week. They can find related documents, find context for previous discussions, and deliver towards
shared goals. See the evidence
How the teamwork score is calculated
Primary insight in the experience that contains the key metrics for this category in your
organization is provided. Then a scoring framework is used for these metrics to calculate your
organization's score.
Primary insight
The primary insight looks at:

--- Page 948 of 2193 ---
All the users who are communicating using email and messages on Microsoft Teams.
Interacting with content on the cloud in shared workspaces.
Within Microsoft 365, Microsoft 365 Groups are the foundation for users to come together in a
shared workspace with the ability to send emails to the group mailbox, share files on the
SharePoint team site, and send channel messages through Microsoft Teams.

1. Header: Provides the key metric of users in your org performing any one the following
activities:
Sending email to a group mailbox through Exchange.
Sending channel messages through Teams.
Reading and creating content (what we collectively refer to as content interaction) in
SharePoint team sites.
As a percentage of all users in your org who are performing any of the following activities
(within or outside of shared workspaces):
Sending email through Exchange.
Sending messages (chat or channel messages) on Microsoft Teams.
Reading and creating content on OneDrive or SharePoint.
And have access to at least one of the following services:
Exchange.
Microsoft Teams.
SharePoint.
2. Body: Provides more information on how communicating and interacting with content,
when done within a shared workspace, can have positive outcomes for productivity in your
organization.

--- Page 949 of 2193 ---
3. Visualization (current state):
Horizontal bar where the blue portion represents the percentage expressed in the
header.
Highlights the fraction (numerator/denominator) used for computing the percentage
shown in the header.
Numerator: The number of users in your organization who send email to a group
mailbox through Exchange, OR who are sending channel messages through Teams,
OR reading and creating content in SharePoint team sites.
Denominator: The number of users in your org who send emails through Exchange,
OR send messages (chat or channel messages) on Microsoft Teams, OR read and
create content on OneDrive or SharePoint, AND have access to at least one of the
following services: Exchange, Microsoft Teams, or SharePoint.
The peer benchmark value of the key metric is also shown as a percentage.
4. View resources about teamwork: To view help content, select this link.
Trend visualization of the primary insight
The following chart provides the trend of the numerator and the denominator of the key metric
in the primary insight. It shows the number of users engaged in shared workspaces, and the
number of users communicating or interacting with content within the last 180 days. Each data
point on the line chart is an aggregate of activity for the last 28 days.

Scoring framework

--- Page 950 of 2193 ---
The teamwork score for your organization measures at an aggregate (organizational) level
whether users are consistently communicating or engaging in file activity in shared workspaces
within the last 28 days.
Scores aren't provided at the individual user level.
Explore more about teamwork in your organization
We also provide additional information about how users in your organization work together.
These additional metrics don't directly contribute to your Adoption Score, but are relevant in
helping you create an action plan as part of your digital transformation.
Breakdown of how users engage in shared workspaces

1. Header: Shows a detailed breakdown across the different types of teamwork being
measured.
2. Body: Provides information on the value of working in shared workspaces to help teams be
more effective.

--- Page 951 of 2193 ---
3. Visualization: The visualization shows the extent to which users who are communicating or
interacting with content are doing so in shared workspaces, as follows:
Sending email: The colored portion and the fraction represent the percentage of users
sending email to group mailboxes. The fraction is composed of:
Numerator: users sending emails to group mailboxes in the last 28 days.
Denominator: users sending emails in the last 28 days. These users are the same
group of users who are marked as sending email in the primary insight of
communication Adoption Score.
Sending messages: The colored portion and the fraction represent the percentage of
users sending messages in channels in Microsoft Teams. The fraction is composed of:
Numerator: users sending channel messages within the last 28 days.
Denominator: users sending chat or channel messages in the last 28 days. These
users are the same group of users who are marked as sending messages in
Microsoft Teams in the primary insight of the communication category in Adoption
Score.
Creating content: The colored portion and the fraction represent the percentage of
users reading or creating content on Microsoft 365 SharePoint team sites.
Numerator: Number of users reading or creating content on Microsoft 365 group
connected team sites.
Denominator: Number of users with access to SharePoint, who read or created
content of any kind in OneDrive or SharePoint sites in the last 28 days.
4. View related content: To view help content, select this link.
Breakdown of workspace engagement by size and age

--- Page 952 of 2193 ---

1. Header: Categorizes engagement by workspace size, based on member count, and
workspace age in months.
2. Body: Provides information about the value of encouraging users in your organization to
keep only the workspaces that are needed to promote more effective teamwork.
3. Visualization: The engagement breakdown is shown in the form of a heat-map across two
dimensions.
Size of workspace: Workspaces are broken down into three categories based on the
number of members: 2-10 users, 11-100 users, and over 100 users. The All category
includes all size categories.

--- Page 953 of 2193 ---
Age of workspace: Categorizes workspaces by the number of months since they were
first created. The All category includes all age categories.
Each cell in the chart has a number and color based on the percentage of engaged
workspaces that belong in that category. The workspace categories are based on the
age and size shown in the intersection of that cell. For example, if the cell at the
intersection of 11-100 users and 4-12 months has a value of 52%, it means that 52% of
the workspaces with 11-100 members that are between 4-12 months old, have some
form of engagement. The percentage is calculated as:
Numerator: Workspaces that have engagement in the form of communication
(email and channel messages) or content interaction in the last 28 days.
Denominator: All workspaces that are available in your org for the last 28 days.
4. View related content: To view help content, select this link.
Breakdown of workspaces by level of engagement

--- Page 954 of 2193 ---

1. Header: Provides a breakdown of workspaces broken out by level of engagement, using
group email, channel messages, and content interaction.
2. Body: Provides information on the value of consistent engagement in the shared
workspaces to help make them more effective at teamwork.
3. Visualization: Provides a view of the workspaces in your organization based on the intensity
of engagement per week. The view includes distributions for different activity types
measured within teamwork, in addition to any engagement, which covers the following
categories:
Group email: Percent of workspaces that have no days/1 day/2-3 days/4+ days of
group email activity per week over the last 28 days.

--- Page 955 of 2193 ---
Channel messages: Percent of workspaces that have no days/1 day/2-3 days/4+ days
of channel messages per week over the last 28 days.
Content reading or creation: Percent of workspaces that have no days/1 day/2-3
days/4+ days of reading or creating content per week over the last 28 days.
4. View related content: To view help content, select this link.
Use of teams within Microsoft Teams

1. Header: Shows the number of shared workspaces that have a Microsoft Teams team
associated with them.
2. Body: Provides information about the value of having a Microsoft Teams team attached to
the shared workspaces, to help make users associate with them more effective at teamwork.

--- Page 956 of 2193 ---
3. Visualization: The colored part of the donut chart reflects the percentage of workspaces
that have a Microsoft Teams team attached to them. The percentage is calculated as follows:
Numerator: The number of shared workspaces in your organization that had a
Microsoft Teams team associated with them in the last 28 days.
Denominator: The number of shared workspaces in your org in the last 28 days.
The number in the center of the donut chart represents the total number of shared
workspaces that have a Microsoft Teams team associated with them.
4. View related content: To view help content, select this link.
View teamwork trends over time
For each of the insights in this article, you can see how the metrics trend over time by selecting
an option from the Data View dropdown menu.

After you select an option, the charts in the report will update to show a trend over time rather
than a snapshot of the past month.
Related content
Microsoft 365 apps health - Technology experiences.
Communication - users experiences.
Content collaboration - users experiences.
Meetings - users experiences.
Mobility - users experiences.
Privacy controls for Adoption Score.

--- Page 957 of 2193 ---
Last updated on 05/01/2026

--- Page 958 of 2193 ---
Meetings insights score
Check out all of our small business content on Small business help & learning .
Adoption Score provides insights into your organization's digital transformation journey
through its use of Microsoft 365 and the technology experiences that support it. Your
organization's score reflects technology experience measurements and can be compared to
benchmarks from organizations similar to yours. To learn more, check out the Adoption Score
overview and read Microsoft's Privacy Statement .
７ Note
This documentation is for the newest version of Meetings insights. If you're still using the
previous version of Meetings insights, see the article for Meetings insights (Previous
Version).
Prerequisites
To get started with Meetings insights, people in your organization need to be licensed for:
Microsoft Teams
For more information, see assign licenses to users.
After people have been active in Teams at least once in the last 28 days, you'll start to see the
insights.
Why your organization's meetings score matters
Meetings, where people explore ideas, plan, solve problems, and make decisions, are a
fundamental pillar for organizational productivity. Research indicates that when people use
online meeting tools effectively, they tend to save up to 104 minutes per week.
How we calculate the meetings score
Microsoft Teams integrates with Outlook calendar and provides a host of capabilities to make
your meetings more engaging and effective. We provide an overall score for Meetings and
then sub scores for each of the best practices in the Set up, Meet up and Follow up sections.
Overall score

--- Page 959 of 2193 ---
The overall meeting score is calculated by averaging out the scores across the three phases: Set
up, Meet up, and Follow up. We take into account the number of attendees and the duration of
the meeting when tallying the final averaged scores.
For each meeting:
1. We compute the three sub-scores (Pre, During, Post), by averaging the features, for each
meeting. For example, Set Up: 30, Meet up: 40, Follow up: 20
2. We then compute the average of the three sub-scores for the meeting. From the above
example, 30+40+20/3 = 30
3. We compute the weight of each meeting based on the meeting duration and meeting
size. The longer or bigger a meeting, the more impact it has in the final score.
4. We then perform a weighted sum average on scores from all meetings of the tenant
based on meeting weights to compute the final meeting score for the tenant.
1. Header: Shows the score, out of 100, based on the average of Set Up, Meet Up and
Follow Up phases for online meetings on Microsoft Teams held in the past 28 days.
2. Body: Provides more information on how using online meeting tools effectively can make
meetings more effective.
3. Visualization (current state): In this horizontal bar chart, the blue (colored) portion
represents the score (out of 100) shown in the header.
Trend visualization of the score
The following chart shows the trend-line of score over the selected period. Each data point on
the line chart is an aggregate of activity for the last 28 days.

--- Page 960 of 2193 ---
What makes up my score?
We provide you with supporting data on each of the Set Up, Meet up and Follow Up phases.
The score for each insight is calculated out of 100.
Set up
This represents the phase that involves scheduling and sharing the details of the meeting and
participants joining the meeting.

--- Page 961 of 2193 ---
Communication shared ahead of time: This represents the score for Microsoft Teams
meetings that had a Teams conversation meeting chat started before conducting the
meeting. For this to be tracked, a user must go to the meeting chat with the participants
and send a message to the participants, before the scheduled meeting time.
Invitation accepted at a high rate (>50%): This represents the score for Microsoft Teams
meetings that had more than 50% of invited participants accept the meeting invite.
Meet up
This represents the phase of when attendees are in the meeting.

--- Page 962 of 2193 ---
Used at least one interactive feature: This represents the score for Microsoft Teams
meetings that had attendees use at least one interactive feature. These interactive
features include raising hand, sending a meeting chat message, or sending a reaction in
the meeting. The score is calculated out of 100.
Participated with audio or chat at a high rate (>33%): This represents the score for
Microsoft Teams meetings that had more than 33% of the participants either speak in a
meeting, send a meeting chat, or both. The score is calculated out of 100.
Shared visual content: This represents the score for Microsoft Teams meetings that had
attendees share any visual content in the meeting by either turning on their video,
sharing screen, or both. The score is calculated out of 100.
Follow up

--- Page 963 of 2193 ---
Created recording: This represents the score for Microsoft Teams meetings that had the
meeting recorded. The score is calculated out of 100.
Sent out post-meeting communication: This represents the score for Microsoft Teams
meetings that had attendee(s) share any chat messages on the meeting chat thread after
the conclusion of that meeting. The score is calculated out of 100.
How can I impact my score?
This section helps understand two insights for the organization:
1. Most significant growth: This section depicts the part of the score that had the highest
growth in the past 28 days.
2. Biggest area for improvement: This section depicts the part of the score that has the
biggest room to improve and impact the org's Adoption Score in the future.
Dig deeper into meetings
This section consists of three sub-sections:

--- Page 964 of 2193 ---
1. Additional insights: Here we provide more insights that help organizations identify trends
and user behaviors across meetings.
2. Interesting findings: Here we provide some interesting facts about meetings being
conducted in the organization.
3. Microsoft Research: Here we reference Microsoft blogs and public research that provide
recommended practices and their impacts to have effective meetings.
７ Note
The 'Dig deeper into meetings' section does not contribute to the overall score of the
Meetings Page in Adoption Score People Experiences, however some insights in this
section may expand on a primary insight used to calculate a score.
Related content
Microsoft 365 apps health – Technology experiences (article)
Communication – People experiences (article)
Content collaboration – People experiences (article)
Mobility – People experiences (article)
Privacy controls for Adoption Score (article)
Teamwork – People experiences (article)
Last updated on 01/23/2026

--- Page 965 of 2193 ---
AI adoption category in Adoption Score
Article • 05/30/2025
With AI rapidly entering the day-to-day experience of people in your organization, we
introduced a new People Experiences category called AI adoption.
The AI adoption score represents the extent to which users in your organization have made
Microsoft 365 Copilot a daily habit. A score of 100 means that all licensed Microsoft 365
Copilot users in your organization are using Copilot features for an average of at least three
days per week (or 12 out of the past 28 days). Users that reach this three-day threshold in a
given month are highly likely to become long-term engaged users of Microsoft 365 Copilot. If
users fall short of that three-day threshold, the score still gives credit for making progress to it.
You can use the other insights on the page to understand what behaviors and features
contribute to your score, and to identify actions to take to boost your score.


--- Page 966 of 2193 ---
AI adoption score calculation methodology
The AI adoption score is calculated based on a target of getting each licensed user to use
Microsoft 365 Copilot for an average of three days per week. The three-day threshold is used
because individuals that achieve it have a high likelihood of becoming a consistent long-term
user of Microsoft 365 Copilot. The score is computed in a way that your organization still gets
credit if users fall short of the three-day threshold. For example, a score of 66 out of 100
indicates that, on average, licensed users are active in Copilot for two days per week (two-
thirds of the way towards the three-day target).
７ Note
For organizations that have enabled at least one user for Microsoft 365 Copilot, AI
adoption score is now added to your total Adoption Score, causing the denominator for
the overall score to increase by 100. If your organization doesn’t have any Microsoft 365
Copilot licenses, then the maximum total score is unchanged (700 or 800) and the peer
benchmark is unchanged (sum of all categories reports except AI adoption score).
How the score is calculated:
For each user licensed for Microsoft 365 Copilot, Microsoft calculates the number of days
out of the prior 28 days on which the user actively used Microsoft 365 Copilot.
The score accounts for Copilot usage in the following Microsoft 365 applications:
Outlook, Teams, Copilot Chat, Word, PowerPoint, Excel, OneNote, and Loop. Only
intentional user actions in these apps are considered; the set of actions is consistent
with those used for the Microsoft 365 Copilot usage report.
The use of agents in any of the applications listed previously is included in addition to
non-agentic features, like summarizing a Word document or drafting an email in
Outlook.
An individual-level score is produced for each user by dividing the count of active days by
12. For example, eight days of usage results in (8/12) × 100 = 66.67. 12 days over a 28
day period is equivalent to an average of three days per week.
The tenant-level score is produced by taking the average score across all licensed users in
the organization. If the score is 50 out of 100, this means that, on average, licensed users
in your organization used Microsoft 365 Copilot on six days out of the past 28 days
(which means an average of 1.5 days per week).
Peer benchmark for AI adoption score

--- Page 967 of 2193 ---
The AI adoption score peer benchmark allows you to compare your organization's score with
organizations like yours. Consistent with other scores in Adoption Score, the benchmark is
calculated by taking the average AI adoption score across organizations similar to yours (based
on your region, industry, and number of users licensed for Microsoft 365). To learn more, see
Interpreting your organization's Adoption Score

To learn more, see Interpreting your organization's Adoption Score.
Time trends
Time trend data is provided for each category score to track progress. This allows visibility of
Copilot usage across various Microsoft 365 applications over different time ranges, similar to
other categories. Alongside the current 28-day rolling period (RL28), insights are available for:
30 days (RL30)
90 days (RL90)
180 days (RL180)
View AI adoption resources

--- Page 968 of 2193 ---
Resources are available for administrators to facilitate adoption, including:
Copilot Prompt Gallery
Success Kit (v2.0)
User Enablement
Copilot Dashboard in Viva Insights
Microsoft Copilot Scenario
Organizational messages in AI adoption score
Organizational messages in AI adoption score enable you to drive awareness of Microsoft 365
Copilot features for licensed users that haven’t tried certain key Copilot capabilities yet. You

--- Page 969 of 2193 ---
can use organizational messages to quickly deliver actionable notifications directly in Microsoft
products (including Teams and Windows), targeted to users based on their Microsoft 365
Copilot activity, all while maintaining user-level privacy.

To use organizational messages in AI adoption score, you must be assigned one of the
following admin roles:
Global administrator
Organizational message writer
After selecting Take action, the following message configuration panel appears:

Administrators can select one of three message options. Messages will be sent to users who
have a Copilot license assigned to them but haven’t actively used relevant Copilot features over
the prior 28 days. Admins can further filter down this list by excluding certain groups. Admins
can also configure the start date and end date for the message.
To edit a message after it has already been scheduled, admins can cancel and reschedule it.
Currently, organizational messages will show up on either new Teams or Windows 11
notification center. The languages of the messages will adjust based on end-users’ preferred
languages.

--- Page 970 of 2193 ---
How are people using Microsoft 365 Copilot?
Microsoft 365 Copilot usage insights are organized into six key areas:
Microsoft Copilot usage frequency
Teams meetings and chats
Documents (Word, Excel, PowerPoint, OneNote)
Emails
Microsoft 365 Copilot Chat
Agents for Copilot
These insights show how many users are engaging with various Copilot features compared to
the total number of users enabled over a 28-day period.
You can use these insights to:
Identify which Copilot features are most popular among your users
Spot underutilized features that might benefit from more user training
Track adoption trends across different Microsoft 365 applications over 7, 30, 90, 180 days’
time ranges

--- Page 971 of 2193 ---

７ Note
When you select the settings to opt out specific user groups from calculating People
experience insights in Adoption Score, the AI adoption category would not respect that
opt out for the current release.
Sentiment survey upload experience
In this section, you can upload Copilot survey results to have them displayed in the Microsoft
Copilot Dashboard.
７ Note
You won't be able to view the results on this page; they're only available in the Microsoft
Copilot Dashboard.

--- Page 972 of 2193 ---
Use this feature to provide your organizational leaders with a centralized location for insights
on how users feel about the AI adoption they receive from Copilot.
This feature is only available for Global administrators. Users without this role can't see it in the
Microsoft 365 admin center.
Upload survey data
To access the Sentiment survey upload feature in the Microsoft 365 admin center, follow these
steps:
1. In the Microsoft 365 admin center, go to Reports > Adoption Score.
2. Navigate to AI adoption score and select View details.
3. On the AI adoption score page, navigate to Assess Copilot sentiment for your org and
select Record survey results.

Update results over time

You can upload new survey data as often as you want to keep the Copilot Dashboard updated
with the latest feedback from your users.

--- Page 973 of 2193 ---
If you want to delete or overwrite the existing survey data, select the Delete or Overwrite
buttons at the bottom of the page. Note, these actions can't be undone.
Suggested Copilot survey questions
To measure Copilot user sentiment in your organization, we recommend delivering a survey to
users that asks them to indicate their level of agreement with the following four statements:
Using Copilot helps improve the quality of my work or output
Using Copilot helps me spend less mental effort on mundane or repetitive tasks
Using Copilot allows me to complete tasks faster
When using Copilot, I am more productive
For each of these, we recommend allowing users to indicate whether or not they Strongly
Disagree, Disagree, Neither Agree Nor Disagree, Agree, or Strongly Agree with the statement.
You can then combine the Agree and Strongly Agree responses to compute the % of users who
agreed with each statement and compare results with the Microsoft benchmarks shown in this
tab.
Your user survey doesn't need to be limited to these four statements, but we recommend
including them at a minimum for easy comparison with Microsoft’s benchmark results.

--- Page 974 of 2193 ---
Adoption Score Organizational
Messages
Article • 06/14/2024
Organizational messages enable IT admins to deliver clear, actionable messages in-
product and in a targeted way, while maintaining user-level privacy. Organizational
messages in Adoption Score use targeted in-product notifications to advise on
Microsoft 365 recommended practices based on Adoption Score insights. Users can be
reminded to use products that have recently been deployed, encouraged to try a
product on a different surface, or to recommend new ways of working, such as using
@mentions to improve response rates in communications. Templated messages are
delivered to users in their flow of work through surfaces including Outlook, Excel,
PowerPoint, Word, and new Teams. Authorized professionals can use the organizational
messages wizard in Adoption Score to choose from up to three templated message
types, define when and how often a message can be displayed, and exclude groups or
priority accounts from receiving the message.
Organizational messages for Adoption Score will initially roll out to Communication,
Content Collaboration, Mobility, and more to follow to support all People Experience
categories.
７ Note
The feature is currently in preview. If you encounter any bugs or have any
suggestions, give us feedback in the Microsoft 365 admin center. We appreciate
your feedback and will reach out to you as fast as we can.
Who can use the feature?
For a successful preview experience, you need to be one of the following admin roles:
Global administrator
Organizational message writer
The Organizational message writer role is the new built-in role that allows assigned
admins to view and configure messages. The Global administrator can assign the
Organizational message writer role to admins:
1. Go to Roles > Role assignments.

--- Page 975 of 2193 ---
2. Search for and select Organizational message writer.
3. Under Assigned, select Add users or Add groups.
4. Choose a group of admins you'd like to assign the role to, and select Add.
Where will the messages appear?
In this preview, we support the teaching call-out and business bars in Word, Excel,
PowerPoint, Outlook Desktop Apps, and new Teams. Business bars are supported by
Microsoft 365 Consumer subscribers, Office 2019, Office 2016, Office 2013, and Office
2010.

The user sees an in-product notification recommending they use Teams messages more.
The desktop teaching call-out is supported by Microsoft 365 Consumer and Commercial
Office 2019, and Office 2016 Consumer.

--- Page 976 of 2193 ---
The user sees an in-product notification recommending they save to OneDrive more.
The user sees an in-product notification recommending they use interactive features
during Teams meetings.
How to enable Adoption Score Organizational
Messages
To enable Adoption Score Organizational Messages, the global administrator needs to
enable Adoption Score first:
1. Sign in to the admin center and go to Reports > Adoption Score.

--- Page 977 of 2193 ---
2. Select Enable Adoption Score. It can take up to 24 hours for insights to become
available.
3. Under the Organizational Messages tab, select Allow approved admins to send
in-product recommendations to specified users.
７ Note
Only a global administrator can enable Adoption Score. The organizational
message writer role can only opt in for Adoption Score Organizational Messages.
After Adoption Score is enabled, the global administrator and organizational message
writer role can opt in for Adoption Score Organizational Message.
Visit privacy controls for Adoption Score to understand how to enable Adoption Score.

Getting started
In the Microsoft 365 admin center, go to Reports > Adoption Score.
We currently have organizational messages for three people experience categories:
Communication, Content collaboration, and Mobility. In each category, you'll find
available actions to take under the How can I impact my score section. Select See what
action you can take > Create message to start the process.
To see all available organizational messages, go to the Actions tab next to Overview.
Choose one of the available messages listed and select Create message to start.

--- Page 978 of 2193 ---
Capabilities
As global administrator or organizational message writer role, you can do any of the
following actions:
Choose a message from a set of templated content for business bars or teaching
call-outs
Select the recipients based on user activities, Microsoft Entra user groups, and
group level aggregates
Schedule a time frame and frequency for delivery of the messages
Save drafts anytime during the message creation process
Track the status of organizational messages and user engagement
Manage scheduled or active organizational messages
Take action on insights
Step 1: Choose a message to take action
1. Under the Messages tab, view where the messages will appear.
2. Choose a message from a set of templated content.
3. Select Preview this message to see an example of what recipients will see during
the date range you choose.
4. The messages will show up in the same language as the user's surface. Currently,
there are 41 languages supported. Check the appendix to see which languages are
supported.
5. Select Next to proceed to the Recipients tab.
6. If you want to exit the message creation process for now and save a draft, select
Save and close. The drafts are stored in the Your org's messages tab under
Actions.
Step 2: Select the recipients
1. Under the Recipients tab, the recipients are by default selected based on their
activities. For example, targeted users who aren't actively using OneDrive or

--- Page 979 of 2193 ---
SharePoint with the apps enabled for the past 28 days.
2. Select Apply filter > Choose organizational attribute.
Groups: In addition to the default recipients, you can send messages to
specific Microsoft Entra user groups
Companies, Country (State) - City, Departments: Using group-level
aggregates, you can apply attributes filter such as attributes like location,
departments, and companies to target specific groups of audiences. Learn
more about how to open Group Level Aggregates and validate data accuracy.
3. You can also omit users with priority accounts or in certain Microsoft 365 groups.
4. Select Next to proceed to the Schedule tab.
７ Note
The recipient list is refreshed daily. The users who adopted the recommended
practices will be removed from the recipient lists.

Step 3: Schedule a time window and frequency for
delivery of the messages
1. Under the Schedule tab, select Start date.
2. Selecting an End date is optional. The default duration is 365 days.
3. Choose Frequency.

--- Page 980 of 2193 ---
4. Select Next to proceed to the Finish tab.
７ Note
If the frequency of the message is set as once a week, the message will only show
on one of the surfaces per week. After the user selects or dismisses the message, it
won't show up again. Teaching call-out messages only appear twice in their lifetime
even if the user doesn't select it.

Step 4: Finish or Save Draft
1. Under the Finish tab, confirm the message details and then select Schedule.
2. If you want to exit the message creation process for now and save a draft, select
Save and close. The drafts are stored in the Your org's messages tab under
Actions.
Step 5: Track the status of the messages and user
engagement
Once messages have been created, you'll see the reporting in the table under the Your
org's messages tab under Actions. The following information is available:
Message name
Status: Draft/Scheduled/Active/Scheduled/Canceled/Completed/Error

--- Page 981 of 2193 ---
Last edited date
Start date
End date
Related category
Related metric
Creator
(Available after messages are active) Total messages seen: total number of times
the message was shown to users
(Available after messages are active) Total clicks: total number of times the
message was clicked by users
７ Note
This capability is only available to Product admins, report reader roles, and user
success specialists who have reader permissions.

Step 6: Cancel or clone messages
Once messages have been created, you'll see the reporting in the table under the Your
org's messages tab under Actions.
Select three dots to the right of Message name to see a dropdown of actions.

--- Page 982 of 2193 ---
Select cancel or clone.
７ Note
Each tenant can have one active message for each insight. If you want to schedule a
new message, you can go to the Your org's message page to cancel active ones.
FAQs
Why does the total number of messages seen differ from
the expected number?
A: For any given message, not every user in its selected audience (selected as message
recipients) will receive the message. This is expected behavior because the message
delivery depends on other factors that affect a message's reach, including:
User behavior: some delivery channels require the user to go to a specific
location/app to have a chance to see the message (for example, a Microsoft 365
app call-out message can only be delivered to a user who opens the Microsoft 365
app).
System protections to prevent over-messaging and user dissatisfaction: some
communication channels have message frequency limits if too many messages are
live at a given time (for example, a Teaching call-out won't appear more than twice
to each user).
How can I test the messages before sending them to
users of my entire company?
You can send messages to specific Microsoft Entra groups, such as your IT department.
See Select the recipients for details.
What is the recommended time frame window for the
messages?
As the frequency of the messages is at most once a week, the recommended minimum
duration is one month. The recommended length of the time window is 12 months. The
recipient's list is refreshed daily. Your messages will always be sent to users who haven't

--- Page 983 of 2193 ---
adopted the recommended practices in the last 28 days. Messages won't repeatedly
send to users who have already adopted.
Will I be able to customize the text in the messages?
Not currently, but additional customization options will be enabled in future releases.
Organizational Messages in Microsoft Intune
Organizational messages in Intune enable organizations to deliver branded personalized
messages to their employees via native Windows 11 surfaces, such as Notification
Center and the Get started app. These messages are intended to help people ramp up in
new roles quicker, learn more about their organization, and stay informed of new
updates and trainings. Learn more about Organizational messages in Microsoft Intune.
Appendix
Messages Localization supported
ﾉ Expand table
Languages Locale
Arabic ar
Bulgarian bg
Chinese (Simplified) zh-cn
Chinese (Traditional) zh-tw
Croatian hr
Czech cs
Danish da
Dutch nl
English (United States) en
Estonian et
Finnish fi

--- Page 984 of 2193 ---
Languages Locale
French (France) fr
German de
Greek el
Hebrew he
Hungarian hu
Indonesian id
Italian it
Japanese ja
Korean ko
Latvian lv
Lithuanian lt
Norwegian (Bokmål) no
Polish pl
Portuguese (Brazil) pt-br
Portuguese (Portugal) pt-pt
Romanian ro
Russian ru
Serbian (Latin) sr
Slovak sk
Slovenian sl
Spanish (Spain) es
Swedish sv
Thai th
Turkish tr
Ukrainian uk
Vietnamese vi

--- Page 985 of 2193 ---
Languages Locale
Catalan ca
Basque eu
Galician gl
Serbian (Cyrillic) RS sr-Cyrl
Related content
Microsoft 365 apps health – Technology experiences (article)
Content collaboration – People experiences (article)
Meetings – People experiences (article)
Mobility – People experiences (article)
Privacy controls for Adoption Score (article)
Teamwork – People experiences (article)
Feedback
Was this page helpful?  Yes  No
Provide product feedback

--- Page 986 of 2193 ---
Group Level Aggregates in Adoption Score
Group Level Aggregates help admins and adoption strategists understand how different groups
are performing on the people experiencing insights. Group Level Aggregates provide a higher
level of insights and actions for your organization based on data from Microsoft Entra ID. You can
get group-level insights for your organization in Microsoft 365 and use them to:
Compare different groups of your organization to understand the overall distribution of
adoption scores and insights, groups that are doing well, and groups that need growth.
Focus on a specific group of your organization to understand more about it in isolation.
How to enable Group Level Aggregates
Group Level Aggregates isn't enabled by default.
７ Note
Group Level Aggregates can only be enabled by the Global administrator role.
To enable Group Level Aggregates:
1. Sign in to the Microsoft 365 admin center .
2. Go to Settings > Org settings > Adoption Score.
3. Under Insights Calculation and Display, select Turn on group-level insights.
Once enabled, it can be accessed by all roles on the people experiences pages.

--- Page 987 of 2193 ---

Data accuracy evaluation
Before group-level insights can be enabled, you need to run a data accuracy evaluation to
determine if group data is accurate. The evaluation helps you make an informed decision about
which segments to use that will best reflect your organization's composition.

--- Page 988 of 2193 ---
The data accuracy evaluation check is a report that reflects the organization's composition based
on key attributes in Microsoft Entra ID.
Currently, we provide capabilities for five attributes in Microsoft Entra ID:
Company
Department

--- Page 989 of 2193 ---
Country
State
City
The report displays the number of people who are included for all the different organizational
attributes out of the total number of employees in Microsoft Entra ID. This is included based on
an entry in the Microsoft Entra ID fields for those five selected attributes. You can download the
report for these five attributes and check for data accuracy. This report is only run and approved
once while setting up Group Level Aggregates.
Example: In the screenshot, the organization has the 'Department' attribute filled for XX out of
the total YY employees with ZZ unique departments mentioned. You would see ZZ unique
departments in the Group Level Aggregates filters on people experience insights pages.

--- Page 990 of 2193 ---
To have all people included in the group-level insights reporting, make sure the above five fields
are accurately updated for all employees in Microsoft Entra ID. For subsequent updates to the
Microsoft Entra attributes, you don't need to run the evaluation again. The updates are available
immediately. Learn more about how to update user data in Microsoft Entra here.
Filtering people experiences scores
Group-level insights on people experience insights help filter the overall score and each insight
for the selected group. When certain filters are applied, you'll see an informative message when
some insights aren't available.
In some cases, you may not see an entire group in the filters despite all data being accurate in
Microsoft Entra ID. This happens when the group has fewer than 10 individuals for that unique
group. We do this to protect user privacy so that no insights can be directly correlated to
individual users.
Last updated on 05/06/2026

--- Page 991 of 2193 ---
Microsoft 365 Apps health - technology
experiences
Adoption Score provides insights into your organization's digital transformation journey through
its use of Microsoft 365 and the technology experiences that support it. Your organization's score
reflects technology experience measurements and can be compared to benchmarks from
organizations similar to yours. The apps health category is part of the measurements that falls
under technology experiences. To learn more, check out the Adoption Score overview and read
Microsoft's Privacy Statement .
Why your organization's Microsoft 365 productivity
apps health score matters
Your organizational productivity is dependent on healthy application environment. Devices
running most current versions of Microsoft 365 productivity apps on recommended channel are
more secure and help people in your organization get the most out of the features in Microsoft
365.
How the Microsoft 365 apps health score is calculated
The Microsoft 365 apps health score is calculated by measuring the number of devices on each
update channel. We also determine whether the devices are running a supported version, and the
most current release of Microsoft 365 apps.
Primary insight in the experience that contains the key metrics for this category in your
organization is provided. Then a scoring framework is used for these metrics to calculate your
organization's score.
Primary insight
The primary insight is calculated from devices that are running Microsoft 365 Apps on
recommended updated channel.

--- Page 992 of 2193 ---

Information considered for primary insight includes Microsoft 365 apps channel, build, and
version that's running on the device.
1. Header: Shows percentage of devices on recommended update channel
2. Body: Provides more information on how running the devices on recommended update
channel helps getting latest update and running current versions on devices.
3. Visualization (current state):
Horizontal bars where the blue-colored portions represent the percentage of devices
running recommended updated channel.
Highlight the (numerator/denominator) of the fraction used to calculate the
percentage expressed in horizontal bars.
Peer Benchmark value for devices running on recommended updated channel is also
shown as a percentage.
Trend visualization of the primary insight
The following chart shows the number of devices in the recommended update channel over the
last 180 days. The data point on the line chart is an aggregate of activity for the last 28 days.


--- Page 993 of 2193 ---
Scoring framework
The Microsoft 365 apps health score measures whether devices are running Microsoft 365 apps
on recommended channel and on latest versions.
Explore your organization Microsoft 365 app channels
and versions
We also provide supporting information that helps you gain additional visibility into what
channels and versions devices in your organization are currently running. These additional
metrics don't contribute to your Adoption Score but can help you create an action plan to
increase your Microsoft 365 apps health score by making sure devices run Microsoft 365 apps on
recommended channels.
Devices on current channel and running supported versions

--- Page 994 of 2193 ---

1. Header: Highlights the percentage of devices on the Current Channel are running
supported versions of Microsoft 365 Apps.
2. Body: Provides information about the value of devices running Microsoft 365 apps on
recommended channel.
3. Visualization: The breakdown in the visualization represents the extent to what percentage
of devices on latest and supported versions of Microsoft 365 apps across different channels
as follows:
Supported versions: The blue bar represents the percentage of devices running on
supported version of Microsoft 365 apps.
Latest releases: The teal color bar represents percentage of devices on latest releases.
4. Learn more: To view help content, select this link.

--- Page 995 of 2193 ---
Devices running latest and supported versions

1. Header: Highlights the percentage of devices running supported versions and devices
running the most recent versions.
2. Body: Provides information about the value running devices on recommended channels and
supported/latest versions.
3. Visualization: The breakdown in the visualization is meant to represent the extent to show
how many devices running supported versions and most recent versions of Microsoft 365
apps as follows:
Supported versions: The blue (colored) portion of the bar and the fraction
(numerator/denominator) on the bar represents the percentage of devices running
supported version of Microsoft 365 apps.
Numerator: The number of devices on supported versions of Microsoft 365 apps
within the last 28 days.
Denominator: The number of devices using Microsoft 365 apps within the last 28
days.

--- Page 996 of 2193 ---
Most recent versions: The teal (colored) portion of the bar and the fraction
(numerator/denominator) on the bar represents the percentage of devices running
recent versions of Microsoft 365 apps.
Numerator: The number of devices on recent versions of Microsoft 365 apps within
the last 28 days.
Denominator: The number of devices using Microsoft 365 apps within the last 28
days.
4. Learn more: To view help content, select this link.
Trend visualization of the devices
This chart shows the trend-line of the devices running supported versions and latest versions of
Microsoft 365 apps over the last 180 days.


--- Page 997 of 2193 ---
Devices in your organization
This section helps you act on the metrics you want to focus on by providing relevant information
to all the metrics for Microsoft 365 apps health - technology experiences.
The following columns are presented in the table at the channel/version level:
Channel: Current Microsoft 365 apps channel on the devices.
Status: Microsoft 365 apps support state of the devices based on current channel and
version.
Versions: Current Microsoft 365 apps versions on the devices.
# of devices: Number of devices.
Related content
Communication - People experiences.
Content collaboration - People experiences.
Meetings - People experiences.
Mobility - People experiences.
Privacy controls for Adoption Score.
Teamwork - People experiences.
Last updated on 05/01/2026

--- Page 998 of 2193 ---
Endpoint analytics in Microsoft
Adoption Score
Understanding how devices in your organization contribute to the user's experience is critical to
any digital transformation effort. To help you understand this aspect, the Microsoft Adoption
Score includes endpoint analytics information. The Endpoint analytics page in Microsoft
Adoption Score shares organizational level insights with roles outside of Microsoft Intune. The
visibility and insights provided in areas like device boot times and application reliability can help
your users by highlighting potential issues within your organization. For instance, endpoint
analytics can expose a long sign-in process or issues with applications unexpectedly stopping.
Endpoint analytics page in the Adoption Score report
Endpoint analytics contains great insights, but it requires access to the Microsoft Intune admin
center. If you're an Intune Administrator, you can display the analytics. However, other users of
Microsoft Adoption Score might be unaware this information exists. Displaying these insights to
Microsoft Adoption Score users allows them to use the data to help drive transformation efforts
across your organization.

The Endpoint analytics page looks similar to the other pages in Adoption Score, making it easy
to dive right in. The following information is displayed on the Endpoint analytics page:

--- Page 999 of 2193 ---
The current endpoint analytics score
Endpoint analytics score over the past 180 days
Startup performance scores
About the endpoint analytics scores
The endpoint analytics score is a weighted average of the Startup performance, Application
reliability, and Work from anywhere scores.
Startup performance metrics
Select the Learn more link under the startup performance information to get more details and a
link to View more in Microsoft Intune. The Startup performance metrics are averages of the
following items:
Average device startup time in seconds
Total boot time: The combination of the Group Policy phase and the Time to sign-in
prompt
Group Policy phase: The time spent querying and processing Group Policy
Time to sign-in prompt: Boot time minus the time spent processing Group Policy
Average sign-in time in seconds
Total sign-in time: Total time for the Group Policy phase, Time to desktop, and Time to
responsive desktop
Group Policy phase: The time spent querying and processing Group Policy
Time to desktop: The time it takes to reach the desktop but where background
processes are still running, and users experience slower performance
Time to responsive desktop: Time where background processes are complete and CPU
utilization is less than 50%

--- Page 1000 of 2193 ---

Application reliability metrics
The chart shows the overall Application reliability score for your tenant with the peer
benchmark. Select the Learn more about app reliability link under the app reliability information
to get more details and a link to View more in Microsoft Intune. The following Application
reliability information comes from Microsoft Adoption Score:
Top apps reducing your score in the last 14 days
App name: The app identifier in the file manifest provided by your client devices. The
app name is typically in executable (or .exe) format.
App reliability score: A score between 0 and 100 that represents the relative reliability of
the application in your tenant. This score is calculated based on Mean time to failure and
Total usage duration (14 days). A score of 0 represents an unreliable app that likely
hampers end-user productivity. A score of 100 represents a reliable app that likely
contributes to end-user productivity.
Mean time to failure in hours: The average amount of engagement time that an end
user is able to use the application before a crash occurs over the past 14 days. This value
is calculated by dividing Total usage duration (14 days) by Total crashes (14 days). By
relating usage duration and crash counts, the frequency of crashes across different
applications is normalized. Applications without crash events in your tenant over the past
14 days are given a mean time to failure value of No crash events.
Active devices: The total number of your tenant's enrolled devices that launched this app
at least once in the past 14 days.

--- Page 1001 of 2193 ---

Last updated on 12/11/2025

--- Page 1002 of 2193 ---
Microsoft 365 Experience insights
dashboard
Article • 01/06/2025
The Experience insights (preview) dashboard shows you data across usage and
sentiment to give you a fuller view of your organization's experience with Microsoft 365.
Experience insights is optimized for organizations with 2000 plus seats. We are working
on bringing the experience to smaller organizations in the future. This information and
data on the dashboard will help you better understand and improve your users'
experience with Microsoft 365. The dashboard shows you data across usage and user
sentiment and helps give you a fuller picture of your users' overall experience. You can
drill down into specific information such as feature usage for certain apps, exact
feedback and Net Promoter Score (NPS) comments, and top help articles viewed by
users in your organization. This info can help you identify opportunities to improve
users’ Microsoft 365 products and app experiences in your organization.
Watch: Experience insights dashboard overview
https://learn-video.azurefd.net/vod/player?id=e157135d-859f-4b5f-aef4-
8fb69496de9b&locale=en-us&embedUrl=%2Fmicrosoft-
365%2Fadmin%2Fmisc%2Fexperience-insights-dashboard
Go to the Experience insights dashboard
From the Microsoft 365 admin center, you can access it at any time by selecting
Experience insights (preview) from the admin home page.
If you’re a member of the reports reader role, once you sign into the admin center, you’ll
automatically go to the Experience insights (preview) dashboard page. You can switch
back to the admin center Dashboard view by selecting the dropdown option next to
Experience insights (preview).
To learn more, see About admin roles and Assign admin roles.
Overview
The Overview page shows you data and information on feedback and help article views
in your organization.

--- Page 1003 of 2193 ---
Suggested training
Suggested training gives you deeper insights into the Microsoft 365 help and training
articles being read by your signed-in users on support.microsoft.com and in-app help
panels with these 3 insights:
Top viewed articles for your organization shows you help and training articles that
have been getting the most views by people in your organization.
Trending across organizations shows you the help and training topics that are
moving up the most in your organizations most viewed list.
Commonly viewed together gives you insights into the additional help articles
users in all Microsoft 365 organizations are reading, along with the top viewed and
top trending articles. You can use this info to put together and share training
packages for your users.
Use this data to decide which help articles and training resources to share with your
users about these products and apps, or make sure your helpdesk is aware of these
areas so they can answer any user questions. If your org doesn’t have enough views on
help and training articles, you’ll see data from other Microsoft 365 organizations.

--- Page 1004 of 2193 ---
Apps and services data
The Apps and services data section shows you a unified view across usage and
sentiment in your organization to give you an at-a-glance understanding of your users'
experience with Microsoft 365. Select an app or service to get additional details, such as
comments submitted through feedback and NPS surveys, or the top Microsoft 365 help
articles your users viewed. You can also favorite the apps or services in the list so that
you can more easily view them.
Apps and services chart information
The chart information gives you insight into the apps and services that you want to track
data on. Select an app or service to dig deeper into usage, product feedback, net
promoter score and help content data.
Active users tells you the total count of unique users who performed at least one
intentional action, like opening a file, in the app over the selected time period. Use this
data to make sure you are hitting your adoption goals. Learn more
Product usage is the percentage of people who are actively using the products that are
enabled for them to use. Use this data to make decisions on where to optimize product
assignments.
In-product feedback Is the total number of feedback responses from within the app or
service that were initiated and submitted by your users. Use this data to gauge the
success and satisfaction people have with the apps. Learn more
NPS survey response volume is the total number of responses to the Net Promoter
Score (NPS) survey. By default, Microsoft sends the survey to 5% of your users and asks
“Would you recommend this product?” Use this data to gauge user satisfaction and to
see what people are saying about the app. Learn more

--- Page 1005 of 2193 ---
Help article views is the total number of views of Microsoft help articles and training
videos about the app. Use this data to find topics of interest and share the suggested
training with your users. Learn more
７ Note
You can filter the chart data for trends over the last 30 days, 90 days, or 180 days.
Products and services data
Select a product or service to see more detailed information about product usage, user
feedback, Net Promoter Score (NPS) and what help articles your users are reading.
Teams usage example
For some apps and services, you can see additional information into the usage of
specific features to get a better understanding of what your users are using the most.
Teams user feedback example
In the user feedback section, you can see the actual comments your users submitted to
help you gauge if there is a pattern that needs to be addressed.

--- Page 1006 of 2193 ---
Teams Net Promoter Score (NPS) example
NPS details allows you to see promoters, passives, and detractors so that you can get a
pulse on the sentiment in your organization. Similar to product feedback, you can also
view the specific comments your users submitted. In some cases where there is enough
volume, you may also see Top topics that categorizes some of the comments into
bucketed categories for easier parsing of the data.

--- Page 1007 of 2193 ---
Teams help article example
For the first time, you can now see what articles your users are consuming on
Support.Microsoft.com com or via the Microsoft 365 in-app help experiences. You can
see the top articles for the specific app or service in your organization, how many
people are viewing the app, and preview the article in-line. This can be an excellent way
of identifying what your users are trying to do and where they may be struggling. Since
not all users seek out help, it’s a good indication of content that may be beneficial to a
broader set of users in the organization. Learn more

--- Page 1008 of 2193 ---
Interpret your organization's help article views
Chart information gives you insight into the apps and services that you want to track
data on. Help article views is the total number of help article page views that users in
your organization have viewed in a Microsoft 365 app or on support.microsoft.com.
７ Note
Help article views are only shown for users who have signed in to the desktop app
or have signed in to support.microsoft.com .
ﾉ Expand table

--- Page 1009 of 2193 ---
Item Description
1 Use the Help content tab to see where people need help using the app or service.
2 You can filter for trends over the last 30 days, 90 days, or 180 days.
3 Total number of help article page views in app or on support.microsoft.com .
4 List of the top help articles related to the app or service that your end-users are reading. If
an article covers multiple apps, it will be shown for each related app.
Examples of help articles
Help articles can be found in-app in the help pane or at the Microsoft support page .
Help article on Microsoft support page
In-app help article in Microsoft Word

--- Page 1011 of 2193 ---
Manage adoption success with actions in
Experience insights
Actions let you track the actions you take to drive user engagement and success for
Microsoft 365 in your organization. You can measure the impact of your actions by
analyzing how each action correlates with changes in usage, NPS, feedback, and help
article views. This empowers you to make data-driven decisions and continuously
improve your strategies for user engagement and satisfaction.
The actions experience within Microsoft 365 admin center includes the following
features and capabilities:
Add an action
Import multiple actions from a CSV file
Edit and remove previously added actions
Duplicate actions
Export the list of actions to CSV
View your action impact on Experience insights graphs
See the list of actions related to a product on the product detail card
Get started
To manage actions, open the Experience Insights dashboard in the Microsoft 365 admin
center, and then select the Actions tab. There are two key experiences to familiarize
yourself within actions experience:

--- Page 1012 of 2193 ---
Adding new actions
1. Select Add action.
2. Complete the form with the following details:
Title: Provide a distinct and descriptive title to help identify the action.
Date of action: Enter the date of that you took the action.
Action type: Select the type of action.
Notes: Optional field to add in further description of your action.
Target products: Select one or more products associated with the action.
3. Once all required details are entered, select Save.
You can also import multiple actions from CSV. Select Import from CSV and follow the
instructions for editing and uploading the file. There’s even a sample, pre-formatted CSV
file that you can use to get started.
Viewing action impact
Once an action is added, you can view it in the graphs in Experience insights, facilitating
the analysis of how specific actions influence the data.

--- Page 1013 of 2193 ---
1. From the Actions list, select the Target product for an action. This will open the
product detail card.
2. Select the Usage, Help Content, Product feedback, or Net Promoter Score tab.
3. On the date of the action, there will be a vertical dashed line tracking the action
against the graph’s data.
Note: You might need to change the Date range to see the action.
4. When you select the Title of the action, above the vertical dashed line, you’ll get
more details about the action.
Additional resources
View your organization's Adoption Score
Adoption Score supports the journey to digital transformation with insights about how
your organization uses Microsoft 365 and the technology experiences that support it.
Your organization's score reflects people and technology experience measurements and
can be compared to benchmarks from organizations similar in size to yours. For more
information on Adoption Score, read, Adoption Score.
Take training for adoption specialists

--- Page 1014 of 2193 ---
In this introductory course, you'll learn the six critical elements to drive adoption of your
Microsoft cloud services to deliver value to your company. This course is applicable to
any size company and uses Microsoft 365 and Microsoft Teams as the example service
to create real-world scenarios. For more information about training for adoption
specialists, read Use the Microsoft service adoption framework to drive adoption in your
enterprise.
Join the adoption community
Welcome to the Driving Adoption Community! Connect and discuss the latest topics
and best practices in driving cloud adoption. Meet and learn from peers and Microsoft
Staff and stay up to date on upcoming training, events, and our monthly Community
calls. For more information, read Driving Adoption .
Use the Microsoft 365 adoption tools
Use our resources to go from inspiration to execution with our productivity cloud. Get
started, experiment with our services, and onboard employees at scale while being
confident that you are improving the employee experience. For more information, read
Drive value with Microsoft 365 adoption tools .
Feedback
Was this page helpful?  Yes  No
Provide product feedback

--- Page 1015 of 2193 ---
Change your organization's address, contact
preferences, and technical contact in the
Microsoft 365 admin center
As an admin, you can use the Microsoft 365 admin center to make changes to your organization
profile, like your billing account information, address, phone number, and technical contact.
To change the address associated with your invoice or subscription, see Change your billing
addresses for Microsoft 365 for business.
Before you begin
You must be a Billing account owner or Billing account contributor to do the tasks in this article.
For more information, see About admin roles.
Edit your organization's information
You can change most of your organization's information, like the billing account name, sold-to
address, and registration number in the billing account details in the Microsoft 365 admin center.
1. In the Microsoft 365 admin center, go to the Billing > Billing accounts page.
2. Select the billing account that you want to edit.
3. To change the billing account name, in the Billing account details section, under your
organization's name, select Edit name. In the Edit billing account name panel, change the
name, then select Save.
4. To change the sold-to address, in the Address details section, select Update sold to. In the
Edit sold-to address panel, you can update the following information for your organization:
a. The Doing business as name (optional). b. The Address. You can't change the
Country/Region. c. The Email address of your organization's contact (optional). d. The
Phone number of your organization's contact (optional). e. When you finish updating the
information, select Save.
5. To change your registration number (optional), in the Other details section, select Update
registration. In the Add your registration number panel, select Edit. Enter your

--- Page 1016 of 2193 ---
organization's registration number, then select Save.
７ Note
You can't change your organization's name without assistance. Complete this form , then
contact support to get help with changing your organization's name.
Change your country/region
You can't change the country/region for your organization. The country/region where your
organization is headquartered determines which services are available to you, the taxes and
billing currency, and the location of the data center. To change your organization's
country/region, sign up for a new account, choose the desired country/region, and buy a new
subscription.
Change your contact preferences for communications
from Microsoft
You can choose the Microsoft 365 product-related communications that you want to receive.
For information about how to change your admin cell phone number and email address, see
Update your admin phone number and email address in Microsoft 365.
1. In the admin center, select the Settings icon in the header.
2. Select Update contact preferences.
3. Under Contact preferences, choose the types of product-related communications you want
to receive.
4. When you're done, select Save.
For Office 365 Enterprise, Microsoft 365 Business Standard, and Microsoft 365 Business Basic
customers: When you first signed up as an admin for Microsoft 365, depending on the
country/region of the users in your organization, they might be automatically signed up to
receive product-related communications.
Change organization settings for Cloud PCs
By default, new Cloud PCs are created with the Windows 11 operating system and the Standard
User account type. To change these default settings, use the following steps.

--- Page 1017 of 2193 ---
1. In the Microsoft 365 admin center, in the Navigation menu, go to the Settings > Org
settings page.
2. On the Services tab, select Windows 365.
3. Select your preferred operating system and account type, then select Save.
Organization settings only apply to newly created Cloud PCs. When these settings are changed,
they don't change the OS or account type of existing Cloud PCs.
Related content
Update your Microsoft 365 admin phone number and email address (article)
Send email from a different address in Outlook.com (article)
Change a user name and email address (article)
Configure email forwarding in Microsoft 365 (article)
Last updated on 04/29/2026

--- Page 1018 of 2193 ---
Manage people data and related
experiences from the Microsoft 365
admin center
The People settings section in the Microsoft 365 admin center is a unified single location for IT
admins to manage all people data and experiences related settings in their organization.
How to access the People settings section
1. Sign in to the Microsoft 365 admin center with an account that has the necessary admin
role.
2. In the left navigation pane, go to Settings and select Org settings.
3. On the Org settings page, find the Services tab (the list of service-specific settings).
4. Select People settings from the list of services.
Note: To view or modify People settings, you must be a Global Administrator or have the People
Administrator role in Microsoft 365 (About admin roles in the Microsoft 365 admin center -
Microsoft 365 admin | Microsoft Learn). The People Administrator role is a specialized admin role
that allows managing people-centric features (like updating profile card settings, pronouns, and
name pronunciations) without granting full global admin permissions. Global Readers can view
these settings (read-only).
） Important
Microsoft recommends that you use roles with the fewest permissions. Using lower
permissioned accounts helps improve security for your organization. Global Administrator is
a highly privileged role that should be limited to emergency scenarios when you can't use an
existing role. To learn more, see About admin roles in the Microsoft 365 admin center.
To assign the People Administrator role to a user:
1. In the Microsoft 365 admin center, go to Roles > Role assignments.
2. Search for People Administrator in the list of roles, and select it.

--- Page 1019 of 2193 ---
3. In the role details pane, choose Assigned admins, then Add and select the user(s) you want
to assign.
4. Save your changes.
Once the role is assigned, that user can navigate to Settings > Org settings > People settings
and have full access to configure those settings (just like a Global Admin would).
The People settings section includes the settings for
Profile card enrichment and customization
Turn pronouns on or off for your organization
User name pronunciation in Teams
Last updated on 05/06/2026

--- Page 1020 of 2193 ---
Enriching and customizing your
organization's profile cards
08/05/2025
Profile cards in Microsoft 365 show key information about an organization’s employees. As
an admin, you can use the Microsoft 365 admin center to add certain properties to your
organization's profile cards. These settings are configured under People settings section in your
admin dashboard.
Before you begin
You must be a Global Administrator or a People Administrator to do the tasks in this article. For
more information, see About admin roles.
Properties in profile cards
Properties in profile cards map to attributes in the Microsoft 365 profile resource and can be
populated from various sources, including:
Microsoft Entra ID
Organizational data in Microsoft 365
Microsoft 365 Copilot connectors for people data
User-provided details
Read Build Microsoft 365 Copilot connectors for people data to learn how to ingest people
data from external source systems into Microsoft Graph.
Default properties
Some properties are shown by default on profile cards when data is available. Admins can't
hide these properties:
Name
Email
Chat
Work phone

--- Page 1021 of 2193 ---
Mobile
Work location
Company
Job title
Department
Business address
Optional properties
Admins can choose to show or hide certain properties on the profile cards. They're hidden by
default, but admins can configure their visibility by navigating to Settings > Org settings >
People settings > Profile card > Contact info in the Microsoft 365 admin center.
When enabled, these properties appear in the Contact tab of the profile cards in Microsoft 365
Copilot app . They're visible to users viewing their own profile and when viewing the profiles
of others.
Division
Role
Employee number
Employee type
Cost center
User principal name
Alias
Fax
Street address
State
Postal code
After an admin changes the visibility of these properties, it can take up to 24 hours for changes
to be reflected on profile cards.

--- Page 1022 of 2193 ---
７ Note
If enabled, street address, state, and postal code are shown under the Business address
attribute on the cards.
７ Note
Hiding a property removes it from profile cards but doesn't delete the underlying data
from Microsoft 365 profiles or stop the property from appearing in other Microsoft 365
experiences. To permanently delete the data, admins need to remove it from the source
system.
How to find the source of a property?
Users can learn the source of each property on their profile cards by exporting their profile
card data . The export shows source IDs for each property, indicating the system the data
comes from. Learn what each source ID represents
If a source ID doesn't have a known mapping, the data comes from a third-party source. In this
case, users should contact their tenant admin to identify the system. Admins can then match
the source ID with a connector ID in Microsoft 365 admin center to find the data source.
How can users edit their profile info?
Users may want to edit certain organization-managed information shown on their profile card
—for example if the property is incorrect or out of date. As above, users should find the source
ID of the property and share it with their admin. Admins can then update the info in the source
system.
Related content
Manage people data and related experiences from the Microsoft admin center (article)
Build Microsoft 365 Copilot connectors for people data (article)
Microsoft 365 Copilot connectors for people data (article)

--- Page 1023 of 2193 ---
Update your Microsoft 365 admin phone
number and email address
This article describes how to update the phone number and email address for yourself as an
administrator in Microsoft 365.
If you're looking for information about how to change your company's name, address,
phone number, or technical contact information, see Change your organization's address,
technical contact email, and other information.
For more information about changing user contact information or removing former users,
see the Related content section.
Update your phone number
1. Go to the Microsoft 365 admin center and sign in.
2. Go to Users > Active users.
3. Select your admin account and choose Manage contact information under Contact
information.
4. Update your phone number and when you're finished, select Save changes.
Update your email address
1. Go to the Microsoft 365 admin center and sign in.
2. Go to Users > Active users.
3. Select your admin account and choose Manage username and email under Username
and email.
4. Update your email address and when you're finished, select Save changes.
Billing questions?
For answers to billing questions, see:
Change your billing addresses for Microsoft 365 for business
Manage payment methods

--- Page 1024 of 2193 ---
Related content
Change a user name and email address
Remove a former user
Access and back up a former user's data
Get support for Microsoft 365 for business
Manage user authentication methods for Microsoft Entra multifactor authentication
Last updated on 12/01/2025

--- Page 1025 of 2193 ---
Add custom tiles to the app launcher
You can add your own custom tiles to Apps that point to SharePoint sites, external sites, legacy
apps, and more. The custom tile appears under the Apps section in Microsoft 365. Once your
users launch the app, the app is added automatically to the list of app launcher apps for access.
Adding apps to the app launcher makes it easy to find the relevant sites, apps, and resources to
do your job.
７ Note
Adding apps to the app launcher capability is currently unavailable in the Microsoft 365
Copilot App.
Add a custom tile for Apps
1. Sign in to the Microsoft 365 admin center .
2. From the left navigation bar, select ... Show all, and then select Settings to expand it.
3. Under Settings, select Org Settings .
4. In the Org Settings page, select the Organization profile tab, and then select Custom tiles
for Apps.
5. In the Custom tiles for Apps pane, select + Add a custom tile.
6. In the Add a custom tile pane:
a. Enter a name for the new tile in the Tile name field. This name is the name that appears
on the My apps page and app launcher.
b. Enter a URL of the website for the new tile in the URL of website field. This URL is the
location where you want your users to go when they select the tile on the app launcher.
Use HTTPS in the URL.
 Tip
If you're creating a tile for a SharePoint site, navigate to that site, copy the URL, and
paste it here. The URL of your default team site looks like

--- Page 1026 of 2193 ---
https://<company_name>.sharepoint.com.
c. Enter a URL of the image for the new tile in the Image URL field. This image appears on
the My apps page and app launcher.
 Tip
The image should be 60x60 pixels and be available to everyone in your organization
without requiring authentication.
d. Enter a description for the new tile in the Description field. The description is displayed
when you select the tile on the My apps page and select App details.
e. Select Save to finish creating the custom tile.
Your custom tile appears for your users within 24 hours in the app launcher on the All tab and in
Microsoft 365 Apps.
７ Note
If you don't see the custom tile created in the previous steps, make sure you have an
Exchange Online mailbox assigned to you and that your mailbox has been signed into at
least once. These steps are required for custom tiles in Microsoft 365.
Edit or delete a custom tile
To edit an existing custom tile, follow these steps:
1. Sign in to the Microsoft 365 admin center .
2. From the left navigation bar, select ... Show all, and then select Settings to expand it.
3. Under Settings, select Org Settings .
4. In the Org Settings page, select the Organization profile tab, and then select Custom tiles
for Apps.
5. In the Custom tiles for Apps pane, find the custom tile you want to edit or delete, select the
horizontal ellipsis (...) next to the custom tile, and then select Edit custom tile.

--- Page 1027 of 2193 ---
6. In the Edit custom tile pane, update the Tile name, URL of website, URL of tile image, or
Description for the custom tile as needed.
7. Select Save.
To delete an existing custom tile, follow these steps:
1. Sign in to the Microsoft 365 admin center .
2. From the left navigation bar, select ... Show all, and then select Settings to expand it.
3. Under Settings, select Org Settings .
4. In the Org Settings page, select the Organization profile tab, and then select Custom tiles
for Apps.
5. In the Custom tiles for Apps pane, find the custom tile you want to edit or delete, select the
horizontal ellipsis (...) next to the custom tile, and then select Delete custom tile.
6. In the Delete custom tile? window, select Delete.
Next steps
To customize the look and feel of Microsoft 365 to match your organization's brand, see
Customize the Microsoft 365 theme.
Related content
Pin apps to your users' app launcher.
Upgrade your Microsoft 365 for business users to the latest version.
Manage add-ins in the admin center.
Last updated on 05/06/2026

--- Page 1028 of 2193 ---
Pin apps to your users' app launcher
Use the controls in the Microsoft Entra admin center to pin up to three apps to Microsoft365.com
and the app launcher for all the users in your organization. You can also organize groups of
applications. Any app you add can later be unpinned by the user at any time. To pin an app for
your users, you must be a Cloud application administrator or Application administrator in
Microsoft Entra ID. For more information about admin roles, see Microsoft Entra built-in roles and
admin roles in Microsoft 365.
For more information about the app launcher and Microsoft365.com, see meet the app
launcher and updates to office.com and the-Office 365 app launcher blog article.
Use the Microsoft Entra admin center to pin apps
７ Note
Microsoft 365 productivity apps are excluded from this list since they're already displayed in
the App launcher.
1. Go to the Microsoft 365 admin center at https://admin.cloud.microsoft .
2. In the left nav, choose Show all. Under Admin centers, choose Identity.
3. In Microsoft Entra admin center on the left nav, select Enterprise Apps.
4. Next, choose App launchers, and then choose Settings.
5. In the Microsoft 365 settings section, choose Add application.
6. Choose the applications you want to pin to the users' app launcher, and then choose Add.
Pin a custom app
７ Note
The user interface indicates if you need to purchase more Microsoft Entra ID licenses to use
this feature. For more information, see Microsoft Entra pricing .
1. Go to the Microsoft 365 admin center at https://admin.cloud.microsoft .
2. In the left nav, choose Show all. Under Admin centers, choose Identity.
3. In Microsoft Entra admin center on the left nav, select Enterprise apps.

--- Page 1029 of 2193 ---
4. On All applications, select an existing application or choose New application.
5. If you choose an existing application, follow the steps to add users and groups, provision
users, and secure access.
6. If you choose a new application, follow the steps to create the new application. Then, follow
the steps to add users and groups, provision users, and secure access.
Create application collections
You can also create application collections for the users in your organization. For instructions, see
Create collections on the My Apps portal.
Last updated on 05/04/2026

--- Page 1030 of 2193 ---
Upgrade your Microsoft 365 for business
users to the latest apps
Article • 04/08/2025
Get ready to upgrade to Microsoft 365
As an admin, you control what version of the Microsoft 365 productivity apps people in your
organization can install. We highly recommend that you help users in your organization
running older versions such as Office 2013 or Office 2016 upgrade to the latest version of the
apps in Microsoft 365 to take advantage of security and productivity improvements.
Is this the right topic for you?
If you're the admin responsible for the Microsoft 365 for business subscription in your
organization, you're in the right place. Admins are typically responsible for tasks like managing
users, resetting passwords, managing Office installs and adding or removing licenses.
If you're not an admin and you have a Microsoft 365 Family subscription, see How do I
upgrade Office for information about upgrading your older, home use version of Office.
Upgrade steps
The steps below will guide you through the process of upgrading your users to the latest
Microsoft 365 desktop apps. We recommend you read through these steps before beginning
the upgrade process.
Step 1 - Check system requirements
Check the system requirements to make sure your devices are compatible with the latest
version of Office. For example, newer versions of the apps in Microsoft 365 can't be installed on
computers running Windows XP or Windows Vista.
 Tip
If you have users in your organization running older versions of Windows on their PCs or
laptops, we recommend upgrading to the latest version of Windows. Windows 7 has
reached end of support. Read Support for Windows 7 ends in January 2020 for more
info.

--- Page 1031 of 2193 ---
Check out the Windows 11 system requirements to see if you can upgrade their operating
systems.
Check application compatibility
To ensure a successful upgrade, we recommend identifying your applications--including VBA
scripts, macros, third-party add-ins, and complex documents and spreadsheets--and assessing
their compatibility with the latest version of Microsoft 365.
For example, if you're using third-party add-ins with your current install, contact the
manufacture to make sure they're compatible with the latest version of Microsoft 365.
Step 2 - Check your existing subscription plan
Some Microsoft 365 plans don't include the full desktop versions of the apps and the steps to
upgrade are different if your plan doesn't include desktop version of the apps.
Not sure which subscription plan you have? See What Microsoft 365 for business subscription
do I have?
If your existing plan includes the Microsoft 365 apps, move on to Step 3 - Uninstall Office.
If your existing plan doesn't include the Microsoft 365 apps, then select from the options
below:
Upgrade options for plans that don't include the apps in
Microsoft 365
Option 1: Switch subscriptions
Switch to a subscription that includes the Microsoft 365 productivity apps. See Switch to a
different Microsoft 365 for business plan.
Option 2: Buy individual, one-time purchases of Office, or buy Office through a volume
license
Buy an individual, one-time purchase of Microsoft 365. See Microsoft 365 Family &
Business
OR
Buy multiple copies of Office through a volume license. See, Compare suites available
through volume licensing .

--- Page 1032 of 2193 ---
Step 3 - Uninstall Office
Before installing the latest version of Microsoft 365, we recommend you uninstall all older
versions of the Office app. However, if you change your mind about upgrading, note the
following instances where you won't be able to reinstall the Office app after uninstalling it.
We recommend if you have third-party add-ins, contact the manufacturer to see if there's an
update that will work with the latest version of Microsoft 365.
 Tip
If you run into issues while uninstalling, you can use the Microsoft Support and Recovery
Assistant tool to help you remove Office: Download and run the Microsoft Support and
Recovery Assistant .
Select the version of Office you want to uninstall
From a PC
From a Mac
Known issues trying to reinstall older versions of after an
uninstall
Office through a volume license If you no longer have access to the source files of these
volume license versions, you won't be able to reinstall it.
Office pre-installed on your computer If you no longer have a disk or product key, you won't
be able to reinstall it.
Non-supported subscriptions If your copy was obtained through discontinued subscriptions,
such as Office 365 Small Business Premium or Office 365 Mid-size Business, you won't be able
to install an older version unless you have the product key that came with your subscription.
If you'd prefer to install your older version side-by-side with the latest version, you can see a
list of versions where this is supported in, Install and use different versions of Office on the
same PC . A side-by-side installation might be the right choice for you, if for example, you've
installed third-party add-ins you're using with your older version and you're not yet sure
they're compatible with the latest version.
Step 4 - Assign licenses to users

--- Page 1033 of 2193 ---
If you haven't already done so, assign licenses to any users in your organization who need to
install the latest version of Microsoft 365. See Assign licenses to users in Microsoft 365 for
business.
Step 5 - Install Microsoft 365 apps
After you've verified the users you want to upgrade all have licenses, the final step is to have
them install the apps in Microsoft 365. See Download and install or reinstall Microsoft 365 or
Office 2021 on a PC or Mac .
 Tip
If you don't want your users installing Office themselves, see Manage Microsoft 365
installation options in the Microsoft 365 admin center. You can use the Deployment Tool
to download apps to your local network and then deploy using the software deployment
method you typically use.
Office 2010 reaches end-of-support
Office 2010 reached its end of support on October 13, 2020. Microsoft will no longer provide
the following:
Technical support for issues
Bug fixes for issues that are discovered
Security fixes for vulnerabilities that are discovered
See Office 2010 end of support roadmap for more information.

--- Page 1034 of 2193 ---
Organizational messages in the Microsoft
365 admin center
By using organizational messages in the Microsoft 365 admin center, you can connect with your
organization through customized, in-product messages. Use organizational messages to
streamline communication with users across Microsoft products. These messages enhance in-
product experiences and support remote and hybrid work scenarios by sharing:
Educational content.
Information about Microsoft 365 service or license availability.
Updates on organizational activities.
） Important
Organizational Messages now includes two powerful new capabilities available for General
Availability (GA).
Email Messages: Admins can now deliver premade templatized messages by email, joining
existing surfaces like Windows Spotlight, Task Bar, Notification Center, and Teams Popovers.
Usage: Admins can now target organizational messages based on user activity. For GA there
are 2 pre-defined Action Segments available for Inactive Copilot Users and Inactive Copilot
Users in Teams.
As we roll out GA for these features, we're excited to see how they will enhance
communication and help drive Copilot adoption within your organization. We're committed
to continuously improving these capabilities based on your feedback and usage.
Organizational messages capabilities
You can centrally manage organizational messages in the Microsoft 365 admin center.
With organizational messages, you can:
Send branded messages where users already work — Reach employees on the Windows
lock screen, taskbar, notification center, in Microsoft Teams, or by email.

--- Page 1035 of 2193 ---
Use ready-made templates or write your own — Choose from pre-made Microsoft
templates, such as "Welcome to Copilot," and add your logo and URL. Or create fully
custom messages from scratch.
Target the right audience — Deliver messages to specific Microsoft Entra groups, or use
advanced targeting by department, location, company, or usage behavior, such as users
who haven't used copilot recently. For more information on Microsoft Entra user groups
and advanced targeting options see, Group Level Aggregate-based targeting
Control timing and frequency — Schedule start and end dates, set how often a message
reappears, or send a one-time urgent message immediately.
Require approval for custom messages — Route custom messages through an approval
workflow before they reach users.
Track message performance — Review insights data for your messages including; three
time-series data charts showing daily changes in the total Messages seen, Total Clicks and
Clickthrough rate for your messages. See, Review activity reports section in this article for
more details.
Requirements
Before working with organizational messages, make sure the following requirements are met:
Tenant policies - (For Windows) To use organizational messages, configure the appropriate
tenant policies. For more information on what policies are required, see the Set tenant
policies section in this article.
Authors - Assign the Organizational Messages Writer role in the Microsoft 365 admin
center to anyone in your organization who wants to create messages. To access the
organizational messages experiences, you need the Organizational Messages Writer
Microsoft Entra role.
Approvers - Assign the Organizational Messages Approver admin role in the Microsoft 365
admin center to anyone in your organization who is a designated responsible party for
approving customized messages.
Message recipients - Recipients must have access to the Microsoft products the messages
are configured for delivery. However, end users aren't required to have any Microsoft Entra
roles to receive organizational messages. For example, any message configured to be
delivered to a Windows channel, like Windows Spotlight, requires that recipients use
Windows 11 Enterprise.

--- Page 1036 of 2193 ---
Devices - (For Windows) Only Microsoft Entra ID joined devices are supported. Microsoft
Entra (AD) hybrid joined devices aren't supported.
Firewall - (For Windows) To ensure users can communicate with organizational messages,
open the following endpoints:
fd.api.orgmsg.microsoft.com
ris.prod.api.personalization.ideas.microsoft.com
Requirements for advanced features
Advanced features are experiences in organizational messages that are restricted to certain
tenants. The currently available advanced features for organizational messages are:
Fully customized message creation.
Advanced targeting by group level aggregates, including Department, Location, Company,
and Usage.
Admins and users can access these advanced features for organizational messages when the
tenant has at least one of the following licenses:
Microsoft 365 E3, or E5 license.
Office 365 E3 or Office 365 E5 license.
Windows Enterprise E3 or E5 license.
Access the Organizational messages experience
You can access Organizational messages in the Microsoft 365 admin center, where you can create
and manage messages, review message performance.
Familiarize yourself with these three experiences within the organizational messages centralized
experience:
Manage messages - A centralized area where you and your team can view and manage
organizational messages created across supported portals. This area includes usage reports
and access to the Copilot advanced deployment guide within the Microsoft 365 admin
center.
From Manage messages, your team can perform the following actions on messages:
Filter based on message status, location, objective, or message name.
Review existing message details such as language and targeting.
Understand aggregate performance data per message.

--- Page 1037 of 2193 ---
Cancel, delete, approve, and copy messages.
Run approval workflows.
Create a message - A guided creation experience where authors can write fully customized
or template-based messages.
Review activity - A reporting view that enables administrators to monitor delivery and
performance metrics for organizational messages, including messages that are currently
being delivered or were delivered in the past.

Steps to access organizational messages
1. Sign in to the Microsoft 365 admin center .
2. From the left navigation bar, select ... Show all, and then select Reports to expand it.
3. Under Reports, select Organizational messages .
4. In the Organizational messages page, you can access the three experiences:
Manage messages.
Create a message.
Review activity.
Create a new message

--- Page 1038 of 2193 ---
If you have the Organizational Messages Writer Microsoft Entra role, you can create a new
organizational message.
７ Note
This video provides an overview of how to use Organizational messages to help increase
Microsoft 365 Copilot adoption and how to create a new message.
https://learn-video.azurefd.net/vod/player?id=e42cf90c-23c1-436d-a546-
368ad1cac0c3&locale=en-us&embedUrl=%2Fmicrosoft-
365%2Fadmin%2Fmisc%2Forganizational-messages-microsoft-365
To create a new message, follow these steps:
1. Under the Top actions section of the Organizational messages page, select Create a
message.
2. In the Create a message wizard, step through the wizard to create a new message. The
wizard includes the following steps:
Objective: Select the nature or purpose of your new message. Options include
Adoption, onboarding, Sustainability and Tech updates.
Location: When you create an organizational message, you can choose where your
message is displayed to users. Supported locations include Windows Spotlight, the
taskbar, Notification Center, Microsoft Teams and email.
Email Messages: Eight pre-made email templates are available:
Two welcome messages for Welcome to Copilot and Welcome to Copilot Chat.
Six templates from the Great M365 Copilot Journey that highlight features and
best practices to help drive Copilot onboarding and adoption. Email functionality is
currently limited to the eight provided pre-made templates. The email templates
aren't customizable.
Template: Choose the format of the message. You can either use a pre-made message
from Microsoft or create your own. For more information, on custom messages, see
the section Choose a pre-made message or custom message in this article.
Customize: Add customization to the message including full text and custom URLs.
Recipients: Set the groups within your organization that should receive the message.
You can also target by Companies, Departments, Locations, and Usage if the tenant is

--- Page 1039 of 2193 ---
enabled for advanced features.
Usage: Two predefined areas are available for Copilot usage:
Inactive Copilot users: all users with a Microsoft 365 Copilot license that have
not used Copilot in the prior 28 days.
Inactive Copilot users in Teams: all users with a Microsoft 365 Copilot license
that have not used Copilot in Teams in the prior 30 days. Usage is available for
the existing surfaces of Windows Spotlight, Taskbar, Notification Center, and
Microsoft Teams notifications. For more information, see the section Enabling
advanced targeting of organizational messages in this article.
７ Note
The available targeting options depend on the message location you select. For
example, Windows channels support recipient selection via Microsoft Entra
groups and advanced targeting options based on Group Level Aggregates, while
Teams notification channels only support recipient selection via Microsoft Entra
groups.
Schedule: Configure the start date, end date, and frequency when the message is sent
to users. If the user doesn't select the message when the message is displayed, or
dismisses the message by selecting X, then the message reappears to the user based
on the specified frequency. If the user does select the message, the message doesn't
reappear again for a year as long as it isn't expired.
Finish: Review the message before scheduling or sending for approval by your
organization's approvers.
Throughout the Create a message wizard, you can select Save and close to save the message as
a draft and come back to it later. Once saved, a draft message has the status of Draft. You can
see draft messages in the Manage messages section of the Organizational messages page. For
information on how to continue editing a draft message, see the section Modify a draft message
in this article.
Choose a pre-made message or custom message
Two primary forms of message creation are enabled in this experience:
Pre-made messages - Pre-made messages, also known as template-based messages, are a
method of selecting and customizing content that Microsoft partially creates for general

--- Page 1040 of 2193 ---
purpose use. For example, Microsoft might provide various generic messages that your
team can pick. You can then customize the message by adding your logo and URL.
Create your own messages - Create your own messages, also known as fully customized
creation messages, is an open-ended format of entering in content for messages. This
customization allows your team to make messages that include your company name or
other specifics that are unique to your company, group, or team. For example, an author
can select Create your own and type all of the words of the message themselves.
７ Note
The Create your own option is enabled if your organization has the required licenses
as described in the Requirements for advanced features section in this article.
Enabling advanced targeting of organizational messages
If your tenant has the appropriate licenses as described in the Requirements for advanced
features section, at the Recipients step and Select message recipients page of the Create a
message wizard, the following options are available for a Target audience :
Companies.
Departments.
Locations.
Usage.
The advanced targeting options of Companies, Departments, Locations, and Usage in the
Recipients step of the Create a message wizard are made possible by the group-level aggregates
settings associated with Adoption Score. For more information, see Group Level Aggregates in
Adoption Score.
７ Note
If the Target audience is Usage, then it is not required to enable advanced targeting of
organizational messages.
To enable advanced targeting of organizational messages, follow these steps:
1. Sign in to the Microsoft 365 admin center .

--- Page 1041 of 2193 ---
2. From the left navigation bar, select ... Show all, and then select Settings to expand it.
3. Under Settings, select Org settings.
4. In the Org settings page, make sure Services is selected and then select Adoption Score.
5. In the Adoption Score pane, make sure Insight calculations and display is selected.
6. Under Group data filtering, select Turn on group-level insights and then select Save.
7. Under Group data filtering, select Manage group-level filtering.
8. In the Manage group-level filtering pane, select the Organizational attributes checkbox,
and then Turn on selected filters
Manage messages
From the Manage messages area, you can perform the following actions on messages:
Modify a draft message
Approve or reject a pending message
Withdraw a rejected message
Copy an existing organizational message
Urgent delivery of organizational messages
Delayed delivery of organizational messages
Modify a draft message
If you have the Organizational Messages Writer Microsoft Entra role, you can edit or complete a
saved draft message.
To edit or complete a draft message, follow these steps:
1. Under the Top actions section of the Organizational messages page, next to Filter select
Status, and then select Draft.
2. Select the message you want to edit.
3. In the Message details pane, select Modify.
4. In the Create a message wizard, step through the wizard to edit or complete the draft
message.

--- Page 1042 of 2193 ---
Approve or reject a pending message
Selecting a pre-made message doesn't require any approval before the message can be delivered
to end users. However, approvers must approve custom messages before the system delivers
them to users. Approvers can't approve or reject a message that they created.
Rejecting a message marks the message state as Rejected. The author can review the message
and resubmit it after making the requested changes. For more information, see the section
Withdraw a rejected message in this article.
If approvers don't approve or reject a message by the set End date of the message, the system
automatically rejects the message. This policy ensures the minimum duration of delivery of
messages as expected by authors.
If you have the Organizational Messages Approver Microsoft Entra role, you can review messages
that are in the Pending approval state. You can then either approve or reject the messages. To
approve or reject a Pending approval message, follow these steps:
1. Under the Top actions section of the Organizational messages page, next to Filter select
Status and then select Pending approval.
2. Select the message you want to review.
3. In the Message details pane, review the message details:
To approve the message, select Approve. You can also optionally add a comment
before approving the message.
To reject the message, add a comment in the text field, and then select Reject. You
must enter a comment before rejecting the message.
Withdraw a rejected message
When approvers reject a message, the message state changes to Rejected. However, if you have
the Organizational Messages Writer Microsoft Entra role, you can withdraw a rejected message.
By withdrawing a rejected message, you can modify the message to address the approver's
concerns before resubmitting it for approval. When you withdraw a rejected message, its status
changes from Rejected to Draft.
To withdraw a rejected message, follow these steps:
1. Under the Top actions section of the Organizational messages page, next to Filter select
Status and then select Rejected.

--- Page 1043 of 2193 ---
⋮
2. Next to the rejected message that you want to withdraw, select the ellipses menu, and
then select Withdraw. The state of the rejected message changes to Draft.
3. Select the Draft message you just withdrew.
4. In the Message details pane, select Modify.
5. The Create a message wizard opens where you can edit the message. When you finish
editing, resubmit the message for approval.
Copy an existing organizational message
1. Under the Manage messages section of the Organizational messages page, next to the
⋮
message that you want to copy, select the ellipses menu, and then select Copy.
2. The Create a message wizard opens with elements from the previous message.
3. Step through the Create a message wizard and make any necessary edits.
７ Note
As long as the Location of the copied message remains the same, images from the
copied message are automatically copied to the new message. However, you can
override that image by uploading a new image.
Pre-made messages aren't available for all selections in the Objective step. However,
all objectives have the Create your own messages format available for full
customization authoring.
Urgent delivery
For some time-sensitive communications, admins and other communicators might need to send
a message quickly. Admins might need to quickly broadcast an event to some users so they can
be informed. For example:
An event is occurring on a corporate campus.
A service outage begins.
To support communications in such events, organizational messages include an urgent delivery
feature. The message creation experience for an urgent message is similar to the flow for creating
other messages with these exceptions:

--- Page 1044 of 2193 ---
The only locations available are Windows 11 Taskbar and Notifications area.
Only Microsoft Entra group targeting is supported.
At the Schedule step of the Create a message wizard, Start date, End date, and Frequency
configurations aren't available since urgent messages are sent as soon as possible and only
once.
To create an urgent message, follow these steps:
1. Under the Top actions section of the Organizational messages page, select Send urgent
message.

2. In the Create a message wizard, step through the wizard to create a new urgent message.
Delayed delivery of organizational messages
Organizational messages deliver messages to end users within the time windows that admins
configure through the Microsoft 365 admin center. However, system or user device conditions
might prevent messages from being delivered as expected. For example, urgent messages don't
reach devices that are disconnected from the internet. In these situations, Microsoft 365
continues trying to deliver messages when possible. If a device is offline while an urgent message
is being delivered, the system caches the message for up to 24 hours. Windows attempts to show
the message to the user again once the device is back online.
７ Note
To support tenant-based targeting, the organizational messages system might take up to 24
to 48 hours to initialize for tenants where a message wasn't scheduled in the past 30 days.
Review activity
In the Organizational messages page of the Microsoft 365 admin center, the table under the
Manage messages section includes basic aggregate insights data for your messages. For
example:

--- Page 1045 of 2193 ---
Total messages seen.
Total clicks.
Clickthrough rate.
However, the Review activity experience provides additional advanced insights. In the Review
activity experience, you can review insights data for your messages by using the following
capabilities:
Filtering on time range, status, and other aspects.
Graphing of selected date range.
Data export to CSV.
To access the Review activity experience, follow these steps:
1. If you're not at the Organizational messages page of the Microsoft 365 admin center,
follow the steps in Access the organizational messages experience to get there.
2. Under the Top actions section of the Organizational messages page, select Review activity.
3. The Review activity page opens where you can review insights data for your messages
including:
Three time-series data charts showing daily changes in the total Messages seen. Total
Messages seen is also known as impressions.
Total Clicks.
Clickthrough rate for your messages.
Export organizational message performance data
You can export message data to a CSV file if you want to work with your tenant's message
performance data. To export message performance data to CSV, follow these steps:
1. If you're not already signed in to the Microsoft 365 admin center and navigated to the
Review activity page, follow the steps in Review activity to get there.
2. In the Review message activity page, next to Filters:, set the filters as desired. For example,
set the time range for the data you're interested in retrieving.
3. Select Export to CSV and then save the CSV file locally.
Set tenant policies

--- Page 1046 of 2193 ---
Set tenant policies only if you need to deliver messages to Windows surfaces such as Windows
Spotlight, Windows Notification Center, and Windows Taskbar. You don't need to set tenant
policies for sending messages to Teams Teaching notifications or to Email.
Certain policies can block the delivery of organizational messages. For example, policies in
Microsoft Intune . This section describes both how to set policies to allow organizational
messages and how to verify that there are no policies that block organizational messages.
Create a policy that allows organizational messages in
Microsoft Intune
To enable organizational messages through a policy in Microsoft Intune, follow these steps:
1. Sign in to the Microsoft Intune admin center .
2. In the Home screen, select Devices in the left pane.
3. In the Devices | Overview screen, expand Manage devices, and then select Configuration.
4. In the Devices | Configuration screen:
a. At the top, make sure Policies is selected.
b. Select the + Create drop down menu and then select New Policy.
5. In the Create a profile pane:
a. Under Platform, select Windows 10 and later.
b. Under Profile type, select Settings catalog.
c. Select Create.
6. The Create profile wizard opens. In the Basics page, enter a name and description for the
new policy, such as Organizational Messages Policy, and then select Next.
7. In the Configuration settings page, select + Add settings.
8. In the Settings picker pane:
a. Under Browse by category, select Experience from the list of categories.
b. When the Settings name section appears:
i. Select the following two settings:

--- Page 1047 of 2193 ---
Enable delivery of organizational messages (User)
Disable Cloud Optimized Content.
i. Expand Allow Windows Spotlight (User) and then select the following settings under
Allow Windows Spotlight (User):
Allow Windows Spotlight on Action Center (User).
Allow Windows Tips.
Configure Windows Spotlight on Lock Screen (User).
c. Close the Settings picker pane by selecting the X in the top right corner.
9. In the Configuration settings page:
a. Set all of the following settings to Allow:
Enable delivery of organizational messages (User).
Allow Windows Spotlight (User).
Allow Windows Spotlight on Action Center (User).
Allow Windows Tips.
b. Make sure Disable Cloud Optimized Content is set to Disabled.
c. Make sure Configure Windows Spotlight on Lock Screen (User) is set to one of the
following settings:
Windows spotlight enabled.
Windows spotlight is always enabled, the user cannot disable it.
d. Select Next.
10. In the Scope tags page, select the Next button.
７ Note
Scope tags are optional. If you need to specify a custom scope tag, add it on this page.
For more information about scope tags, see Use role-based access control and scope
tags for distributed IT.
11. In the Assignments page, select the groups that should be targeted by this policy and then
select Next. Include any users or devices that might receive organizational messages.

--- Page 1048 of 2193 ---
12. In the Review + create page, review the policy settings to make sure they're correct, and
then select Create.
７ Note
If you recently onboarded your tenant to Microsoft Entra ID, it can take 36 to 64 hours
before you can use the organizational messages features.
Verify no device restriction policies block organizational
messages in Microsoft Intune
After creating a policy in Microsoft Intune to allow organizational messages, verify that no device
restriction policies block any of the following settings:
Windows Spotlight.
Windows Spotlight on lock screen.
Windows Tips.
Windows Spotlight in action center.
Windows Spotlight personalization.
To check if any policies block these settings, follow these steps:
1. Sign in to the Microsoft Intune admin center .
2. In the Home screen, select Devices in the left pane.
3. In the Devices | Overview screen, expand Manage devices, and then select Configuration.
4. In the Devices | Configuration screen, select Add filters.
5. In the Add filters dropdown menu, select Policy type, select Device restrictions, and then
select Apply.
6. All policies of the type Device restrictions appear under Policy name.
7. Select each of the Device restrictions policies. For each policy, make sure that Windows
Spotlight isn't listed under Configuration settings.
8. If Windows Spotlight appears under Configuration settings, expand Windows Spotlight
and ensure that none of the following settings are set to Block:
Windows Spotlight.

--- Page 1049 of 2193 ---
Windows Spotlight on lock screen.
Windows Tips.
Windows Spotlight in action center.
Windows Spotlight personalization.
9. If any of these settings are set to Block, select Edit next to Configuration settings.
10. In the Device restrictions page, expand Windows Spotlight. You might need to scroll down
the list to find Windows Spotlight.
11. Change any of the following policies from Block to Not configured:
Windows Spotlight.
Windows Spotlight on lock screen.
Windows Tips.
Windows Spotlight in action center.
Windows Spotlight personalization.
12. Select Review + save and then select Save.
Frequently asked questions about organizational
messages (FAQ)
For frequently asked questions about organizational messages, see Organizational Messages in
Microsoft 365 FAQ.
Last updated on 05/11/2026

--- Page 1050 of 2193 ---
Organizational messages in Microsoft
365 FAQ
This article provides answers to frequently asked questions that administrator might have about
organizational messages in Microsoft 365. For more information about organizational messages
in Microsoft 365, see Organizational messages in the Microsoft 365 admin center.
Can you tell me more about delivery
expectations for these messages?
For non-urgent messages, after the Organizational Messages platform schedules your message, it
takes a few hours before the message is eligible to be delivered to end user devices. For example,
if you set the Start Date to be now or today, you should expect a few hours before any end user
devices in your testing tenant receive the message payload.
Windows delivers messages on a pull model, so the system buffers messages on a set period for
each of the channels. Since devices might be configured to request content at different times,
messages might take 24 or more hours before the message is received and rendered.
Once your message is actively delivering for over 24 hours, you can return to the Manage
messages experience to review the latest delivery data for your message.
For urgent messages, after the Organizational Messages platform schedules your message, the
platform tries to send the message as soon as possible. However, as noted earlier, this process is
a best-effort mechanism subject to various conditions, with no guaranteed delivery times.
７ Note
For Windows Spotlight messages, users who select a message on the Windows lock screen
don't see it again for 12 months. Users who don't select the message might see it multiple
times.
My team created organizational messages
through other methods outside of the

--- Page 1051 of 2193 ---
Microsoft 365 admin center. For example,
Microsoft Intune, Adoption Score, and
Usage reports. How do they work with
these messages?
The Organizational messages centralized experience is the one-stop-shop for organizational
messages. You should be able to see and manage your other messages from the organizational
messages centralized experience, regardless of where they were created.
７ Note
Adoption Score organizational messages on Office or Outlook channels aren't visible in the
centralized experience.
How do admins get the required permissions?
Reach out to an admin with appropriate permissions and ask them to assign you the
Organizational Messages Writer or Organizational Message Approver Microsoft Entra role by
following these steps:
1. Sign in to the Microsoft 365 admin center .
2. From the left navigation bar, select ... Show all, and then select Users to expand it.
3. Under Users, select Active users.
4. In the Active users page, search for and then select the user you want to assign the role to.
5. In the user's details pane, select Manage roles under Roles.
6. In the Manage admin roles pane, select Admin center access, and then select Show all by
category.
7. Scroll down to the Other section.
8. In the Other section, select the checkbox next to Organizational Messages Writer and/or
Organizational Messages Approver, depending on which roles you want to assign.
9. Select Save changes.

--- Page 1052 of 2193 ---
Why do I need to update my Mobile Device
Management (MDM) policies?
The MDM policies listed in Set tenant policies control whether the service delivering the
messages can access each location where organizational messages could be delivered. Previously,
the configuration service providers (CSPs) only affected consumer scenarios and controlled
whether Microsoft messaging can be delivered. However, since you're using the same service, the
policies affect admin-created messages as well.
How can I get my MDM settings for
troubleshooting purposes?
1. Right-click on the Start menu and select Run.
2. In the Open: text box of the Run window, enter ms-settings:workplace, and then select OK.
3. In Accounts > Access work or school page of the Settings app, under Related settings,
select Export next to Export your management log files.
4. The exported management log files are saved at
C:\Users\Public\Documents\MDMDiagnostics.
How can I get my user and device ID for
troubleshooting purposes?
1. From the Start menu, launch the Feedback Hub app.
2. In the Feedback Hub app, select Settings in the bottom left-hand corner.
3. In the Settings page, navigate to the Device Information section. The Device ID and User
ID are listed in this section.
Where can I find more information on
configuration service provider (CSP) policies
related to Organizational Messages?
You can use the Experience CSP for policies related to organizational messages. For example:

--- Page 1053 of 2193 ---
AllowWindowsSpotlight.
AllowWindowsTips.
AllowWindowsSpotlightOnActionCenter.
DisableCloudOptimizedContent.
ConfigureWindowsSpotlightOnLockScreen.
AllowSpotlightCollection.
EnableOrganizationalMessages.
What do the different message states mean?
All messages have a state that indicates their creation or delivery status. For example:
Completed - The message successfully was delivered as defined by start and end dates.
Pending - The organizational messages service registered the message but it isn't delivered
yet. Certain details of the message might not be available while in Pending state.
Failed - The organizational messages service wasn't able to properly register the message.
The message needs to be copied to retry the process.
Canceled - An admin stopped and canceled the message. The cancellation could be either
prior or during the delivery of the message.
Active - Message is currently being delivered to your users.
Draft - Message isn't completed or submitted for scheduling and approval. Any tenant
writer can continue a draft and complete the message through the Create a message
wizard.
Scheduled - A message is properly authored and is awaiting delivery. At delivery time, the
message status changes to Active.
Rejected - A message was rejected after an approver reviewed it. Rejecting a message keeps
the message from proceeding to a Scheduled or Active state.
Pending approval - A message is awaiting review by an approver.
How does localization work in Organizational
Messages?
The following locales are supported:

--- Page 1054 of 2193 ---
en-US
de-DE
es-ES
fr-FR
it-IT
ja-JP
ko-KR
nl-NL
pl-PL
pt-BR
pt-PT
ru-RU
tr-TR
zh-Hans
zh-Hant
For pre-made messages, an Organizational Message is created for all of the listed locales. If the
Organizational Messages Writer selects "pre-made Message A" to send to end users, any end
user whose first preferred language matches one of the supported languages qualifies to receive
"pre-made Message A" in their first preferred language.
For custom messages, as long as it's one of the supported locales, the creation of an
Organizational Message is restricted to the Display language selected in the My Account >
Settings & Privacy setting in the Microsoft 365 admin center.
For example, an Organizational Messages Writer sets their Microsoft 365 admin center display
language to French. After the writer creates "Custom Message B", only end users with French as
their Windows display language in the Time & Language > Language & Region page of the
Windows Settings app receive "Custom Message B." "Custom Message B" isn't delivered to end
users whose Windows display language is any language other than French.
Locale fallback:
If the Organizational Messages Writer locale is outside of the supported listed locales, the
message isn't delivered to end users. To ensure delivery, verify that your locale maps to one of
the supported locales listed earlier. For example:
fr-CA falls back to fr-FR, and users with all French language locales receive the message.
lv-LV doesn't map to a supported locale, so users with the lv-LV locale don't receive the
message. Consider authoring the message in a supported locale instead.

--- Page 1055 of 2193 ---
Does Organizational Messages support
government environments?
No, government environments such as GCC or GCC-H aren't supported at this time.
Can we still author Get Started messages
created previously in Microsoft Intune?
You can view any Get Started messages that you created in the Organizational messages
experience within Microsoft Intune that aren't complete within the Microsoft 365 admin center
experience. However, new Get Started message creation aren't currently supported.
Are there any pre-made messages for
Windows Spotlight?
No pre-made Windows Spotlight messages are available.
Where are organizational messages delivered
in Windows 11?
Organizational messages deliver to the following Windows 11 locations:
Notifications area.
Taskbar.
Windows Spotlight.
How can we prevent messages from Microsoft
but still allow organizational messages?
To only show organizational messages, follow these steps:
1. Enable all of the policies described in Set Tenant Policies.
2. Sign in to the Microsoft 365 admin center .
3. From the left navigation bar, select ... Show all, and then select Reports to expand it.

--- Page 1056 of 2193 ---
4. Under Reports, select Organizational messages .
5. In the Organizational messages page, select the Settings gear icon in the top right corner.
6. In the Settings pane, deselect the option Allow Microsoft messages to display.
7. Select Save.
These steps ensure the Organizational messages platform sends only your organization's
messages to Windows surfaces.
How do licenses affect message customization?
The authoring experiences are automatically disabled if license requirements aren't met.
Windows custom messages require Windows E3 or E5, or Microsoft 365 E3, or E5.
Microsoft Teams custom messages require Office 365 E3 or Office 365 E5, or Microsoft 365
E3 or Microsoft 365 E5.
Pre-made messages might still be available without these licenses.
Last updated on 05/11/2026

--- Page 1057 of 2193 ---
Place a mailbox on litigation hold
You can place a mailbox on litigation hold to retain mailbox content, including deleted items
and the original versions of modified items. When you place a user mailbox on litigation hold,
content in the user's archive mailbox (if enabled) is also retained.
When you create a hold, you can specify a hold duration (also called a time-based hold) so that
deleted and modified items are retained for a specified period and then permanently deleted
from the mailbox. Or, you can retain content indefinitely (called an infinite hold) or until the
litigation hold is removed.
If you specify a hold duration period, it's calculated from the date a message is received or a
mailbox item is created.
Here's what happens when you create a litigation hold.
Items that are permanently deleted by the user are retained in the Recoverable Items
folder in the user's mailbox during the hold.
Items that are purged from the Recoverable Items folder by the user are retained during
the hold.
The storage quota for the Recoverable Items folder is increased from 30 GB to 110 GB.
Items in the user's primary and the archive mailboxes are retained
Assign an Exchange Online Plan 2 license
To place an Exchange Online mailbox on litigation hold, that mailbox must be assigned an
Exchange Online Plan 2 license. If a mailbox is assigned an Exchange Online Plan 1 license, you
must assign that mailbox a separate Exchange Online Archiving license to place it on hold.
Place a mailbox on litigation hold
1. Go to the Microsoft 365 admin center and sign in.
2. Select Users > Active users, and then select the user for whom you want to place on
litigation hold.
3. On the Properties flyout panel, select the Mail tab, and then under More actions, select
Manage litigation hold.

--- Page 1058 of 2193 ---

4. On the Manage litigation hold flyout page, select the Turn on litigation hold checkbox,
and then add the following optional information:
Hold duration (days): Use this box to create a time-based hold and specify how
long mailbox items are held when the mailbox is placed on Litigation hold. The
duration is calculated from the date a mailbox item is received or created. When the
hold duration expires for a specific item, that item is no longer preserved. If you
leave this box blank, items are preserved indefinitely or until the hold is removed.
Use days to specify the duration.
Note visible to the user: Use this box to inform the user their mailbox is on litigation
hold. The note appears on the Account Information page in the user's mailbox if
they're using Outlook 2010 or later. To access this page, users can select File in
Outlook.
Web page with more information for the user: Use this box to direct the user to a
website for more information about litigation hold. This URL appears on the
Account Information page in the user's mailbox if they're using Outlook 2010 or
later. To access this page, users can select File in Outlook.
5. Select Save changes on the Litigation hold flyout page to create the hold.
The system displays a banner saying it might take up to 240 minutes for the change to
take effect.
７ Note

--- Page 1059 of 2193 ---
After a litigation hold is enabled, the "created by" field reflects the original user who
enabled the hold, even when the hold is later modified.
Create a litigation hold using PowerShell
You can also create a litigation hold by running the following command in Exchange Online
PowerShell:
PowerShell
Set-Mailbox <username> -LitigationHoldEnabled $true
The previous command preserves items indefinitely because the hold duration isn't specified.
To create a time-based hold, using the following command:
PowerShell
Set-Mailbox <username> -LitigationHoldEnabled $true -LitigationHoldDuration <number
of days>
You can also run the following command to verify if the mailbox is placed on litigation hold:
PowerShell
Get-Mailbox <username> | FL LitigationHoldEnabled
A value of True indicates that the mailbox is on litigation hold.
For more information, see Set-Mailbox.
How does litigation hold work?
In the normal deleted item workflow, a mailbox item is moved to the Deletions subfolder in the
Recoverable Items folder when a user permanently deletes it (Shift + Delete) or deletes it from
the Deleted Items folder. A deletion policy (which is a retention tag configured with a Delete
retention action) also moves items to the Deletions subfolder when the retention period
expires.
When a user purges an item in the Recoverable Items folder, or when the deleted item
retention period expires for an item, it moves to the Purges subfolder in the Recoverable Items
folder, and is marked for permanent deletion. It's purged from Exchange the next time the
mailbox is processed by the Managed Folder Assistant (MFA).

--- Page 1060 of 2193 ---
When a mailbox is placed on litigation hold, items in the Purges subfolder are preserved for
the hold duration specified by the litigation hold. The hold duration is calculated from the
original date an item was received or created, and defines how long items in the Purges
subfolder are held.
When the hold duration expires for an item in the Purges subfolder, the item is marked for
permanent deletion and is purged from Exchange the next time the mailbox is processed by
the MFA. If an indefinite hold is placed on a mailbox, items aren't purged from the Purges
subfolder.
The following illustration shows the subfolders in the Recoverable Items folders and the hold
workflow process.

７ Note
If a hold associated with an eDiscovery case is placed on a mailbox, purged items are
moved from the Deletions subfolder to the Discovery Holds subfolder, and are
preserved until the mailbox is released from the eDiscovery hold.
If you don't see the Manage litigation hold option in the Microsoft 365 admin
center, it might be because the mailbox isn't assigned an Exchange Online Plan 2
license.
Last updated on 03/25/2026

--- Page 1061 of 2193 ---
Get started with the integrated apps portal
What is the integrated apps portal?
The integrated apps portal in the Microsoft 365 admin center gives you the flexibility to deploy
and manage apps, agents, and add-ins from a single portal, including both Microsoft
Marketplace apps and custom line-of-business (LOB) apps from a single location. These apps can
be built by Microsoft or by other companies. The ability to find, test, and fully deploy purchased
and licensed apps from the integrated apps portal provides the convenience and benefits your
organization requires to keep business services updated regularly and running efficiently.
The integrated apps portal displays a list of apps that can be accessed by users in your
organization. The following apps can be managed via the integrated apps portal:
Office Add-ins, including those that are registered as a web application in Microsoft Entra.
Cross application apps for Microsoft 365.
Teams Apps that only work on Teams.
SPFx apps
SaaS apps that are available in Microsoft Marketplace and can be deployed by admins
giving consent on behalf of the organization.
How to access the integrated apps portal
The portal can be accessed via the Microsoft 365 Admin Center. Select Settings, and then choose
Integrated apps.

--- Page 1062 of 2193 ---

Who can access the integrated apps portal
The integrated apps portal is available to world-wide customers only and can be accessed by the
following roles:
Global administrator
Global reader
AI administrator
Exchange administrator
Azure Application Admins
） Important
Microsoft recommends that you use roles with the fewest permissions. Using roles with the
fewest permissions helps improve security for your organization. Global Administrator is a
highly privileged role that should be limited to emergency scenarios when you can't use an
existing role. For more information, see About administrator roles in the Microsoft 365
admin center.
This feature is not available in sovereign and government clouds.
To learn more about these roles, see Microsoft Entra built-in roles - Microsoft Entra|Microsoft
Learn.
User and group assignments

--- Page 1063 of 2193 ---
Apps, agents, and add-ins in the portal can be deployed for specific groups, including most
groups supported by Microsoft Entra ID. These are Microsoft 365 groups, distribution lists, and
security groups. Assignments must be made to top-level groups (that is, groups without parent
groups) only. Apps cannot be deployed for specific nested groups (that is, groups that have
parent groups). To know more, read the documentation on Assign users and groups to
application.
７ Note
The following are currently not supported:
Non-mail-enabled security groups
Dynamic distribution groups
In the following example, an app, agent, or add-in is deployed for Sandra, Sheila, and the Sales
Department group. Because the West Coast Sales Department is a nested group, the app is not
deployed for Bert and Fred.
Find out if a group contains nested groups
The easiest way to detect if a group contains nested groups is to view the group contact card
within Outlook. If you enter the group name within the To field of an email and then select the
group name when it resolves, it will show you if it contains users or nested groups. In the
example below, the Members tab of the Outlook contact card for the Test Group shows no users
and only two sub groups.

--- Page 1064 of 2193 ---
You can do the opposite query by resolving the group to see if it's a member of any group. In the
example below, you can see under the Membership tab of the Outlook contact card that Sub
Group 1 is a member of the Test Group.
Note that you can use the Microsoft Graph API to run queries to find the list of groups within a
group. For more information, see Operations on groups.
What controls are available in the integrated
apps portal?
As an admin, the following app, agent, and add-in types can be managed from the integrated
apps portal on the Microsoft 365 admin center.
ﾉ Expand table

--- Page 1065 of 2193 ---
Type Supported What can admins Which admins Other admin centers
Host control on can access the & related actions
Products integrated apps controls on
(any or all) portal? integrated apps
portal?
Add-in Outlook Deploy/Edit Exchange Admin Exchange Admin
deployed Center for default role
users/Remove assignment policy.
Word, Excel, deployment
PowerPoint Microsoft 365 Admin
Center > Org Settings
for Microsoft Store
SPFx app SharePoint Deploy/Remove Global Admin SharePoint Admin
deployment Center
Web app N/A Deploy/Edit Azure Application Microsoft Entra admin
deployed users Admin center
Teams app that uses Teams Block & Unblock Global Admin Go to Teams admin
the unified manifest center for default
for Microsoft 365 tenant setting,
(formerly Teams deployment, and
manifest) version less managing availability
than 1.13
Teams app that uses Outlook Deploy/Edit Azure Application Go to Teams admin
the unified manifest deployed Admin center to manage how
for Microsoft 365 Microsoft 365 users/Remove this app shows up in
(formerly Teams App deployment Teams for users in
manifest) version your organization.
equal to or greater Teams Block & Unblock
than 1.13
Manage
availability>Edit
users
Default setting for
tenant
７ Note
An Exchange admin can deploy an add-in if the Application Administrator role is added or if
the App Registration property is set to true in the Microsoft Entra admin center. For more
information, see Admin Requirements.

--- Page 1066 of 2193 ---
Other admin centers
You can continue to manage access to Office add-ins and Teams apps via the following settings:
Org Settings for access to Word, Excel, and PowerPoint Add-ins
Exchange admin center for Outlook Add-ins
Teams admin center for Teams Apps
You can continue to deploy and manage Office Add-ins and Teams Apps via Teams admin center.
Find support information for apps, agents, and add-ins
In the integrated apps portal, when evaluating an app, you can review the Terms of Use and
Privacy Policy of the application before you make it available to your users.
You can access this information in the following ways:
For publicly available store apps, links to Terms of Use, Privacy Policy, and Support are
available on Microsoft Marketplace . Search for an application and navigate to its Details
+ Support tab for the links.

--- Page 1067 of 2193 ---

For a custom app, contact the app developer who initiated the request to upload the
custom app. For Copilot agents submitted via Microsoft Copilot Studio, Microsoft 365
Agents Toolkit, or any other source, requester's contact details are available in the app
details pane in Requested Apps tab.
You can view the same information of an app in the Teams admin center as well. For details,
see how to find support information for an app.
Frequently asked questions

--- Page 1068 of 2193 ---
Which administrator role do I need to access the integrated
apps portal?
Only Global Admins, AI admins, Azure Application Admins, and Exchange admins can access the
portal.
Global admins can edit all controls for all apps and add-ins in the portal
Azure Application admins can edit controls for cross application apps for Microsoft 365
Exchange Admins can edit any controls for Outlook add-ins deployed by them.
The Integrated apps page link won't show up in the left navigation page of the Microsoft 365
admin center for other administrators.
Can administrators delete or remove apps?
Only the admin who deployed the app, agent, or add-in or a global admin can delete or remove
it.
To remove an app, agent, or add-in, select it from the list view. On the Configuration tab, select
which apps to remove.
Is the integrated apps portal available in sovereign cloud?
No, the portal isn't available to sovereign cloud customers at this time.
Is the integrated apps portal available in government clouds?
No, the portal isn't available to government cloud customers at this time.
Last updated on 01/23/2026

--- Page 1069 of 2193 ---
Deploy and manage Office Add-ins through
the integrated apps portal
What are Office add-ins?
Office Add-ins help users get things done right from their Office applications. They are made by
Microsoft or non-Microsoft developers either for use within their own organizations or made
available to the public in Microsoft Marketplace . For more information, see Start using your
Office Add-in .
Before you begin
Management and deployment via integrated apps portal in the Microsoft 365 admin center
require that the users are using Microsoft 365 Business licenses (Business Basic, Business
Standard, Business Premium), Office 365 Enterprise licenses (E1/E3/E5/F3), or Microsoft 365
Enterprise licenses (E3/E5/F3). The users also need to be signed into Office using their
organizational ID and have Exchange Online and active Exchange Online mailboxes. Your
subscription directory must either be in or federated to Microsoft Entra ID.
Office Requirements
Deployment via the integrated apps portal is supported for Outlook, Excel, Word, and PowerPoint
add-ins. They run across multiple platforms, including Windows, Mac, iPad, and in a browser.
Outlook add-ins are also supported on mobile (iOS and Android).
For Word, Excel, and PowerPoint add-ins, deployment through the integrated apps portal is
supported only on Windows, Mac, and the web (not iPad). Additionally, your users must meet the
following version requirements.
On a Windows device, Version 1704 or later of Microsoft 365 Business licenses (Business
Basic, Business Standard, Business Premium), Office 365 Enterprise licenses (E1/E3/E5/F3), or
Microsoft 365 Enterprise licenses (E3/E5/F3).
On a Mac, Version 15.34 or later.
For Outlook, your users must meet these version requirements.

--- Page 1070 of 2193 ---
Version 1701 or later of Microsoft 365 Business licenses (Business Basic, Business Standard,
Business Premium), Office 365 Enterprise licenses (E1/E3/E5/F3), or Microsoft 365 Enterprise
licenses (E3/E5/F3).
Version 1808 or later of Office Professional Plus 2019 or Office Standard 2019.
Version 16.0.4494.1000 or later of Office Professional Plus 2016 (MSI) or Office Standard
2016 (MSI).
Version 15.0.4937.1000 or later of Office Professional Plus 2013 (MSI) or Office Standard
2013 (MSI).
Version 16.0.9318.1000 or later of Office 2016 for Mac.
Version 2.75.0 or later of Outlook mobile for iOS.
Version 2.2.145 or later of Outlook mobile for Android.
７ Note
MSI versions of Outlook show admin-installed or deployed add-ins in the appropriate
Outlook ribbon, not the My add-ins" section.
Exchange Online Requirements
Microsoft Exchange stores the add-in manifests within your organization's tenant. The admin
deploying add-ins and the users receiving those add-ins must be on a version of Exchange
Online that supports OAuth authentication. OAuth connectivity per user is verified by using the
Test-OAuthConnectivity PowerShell cmdlet.
Deployment through the integrated apps portal doesn't support the following scenarios.
Add-ins that target Word, Excel, or PowerPoint in Office 2013.
An on-premises directory service.
Add-in deployment to an Exchange on-premises Mailbox.
Deployment of Component Object Model (COM) or Visual Studio Tools for Office (VSTO)
add-ins.
Deployments of Microsoft 365 that don't include Exchange Online such as Microsoft 365
Apps for Business and Microsoft 365 Apps for Enterprise.
Controls for managing Office add-ins
As an admin, you can manage Office add-ins in your organization as follows.
Deploy an Office Add-in for users in your organization.

--- Page 1071 of 2193 ---
Manage how users can install and use Office Add-ins.
Upload custom Office add-ins for your organization.
Prepare to deploy and manage Office Add-ins via the
integrated apps portal
Currently, Exchange admins and Global admins can deploy add-ins from the integrated apps
portal.
Add-in deployment is supported on three platforms: Windows, Mac, and on the web. It's also
supported on iOS and Android for Outlook add-ins.
User experience with admin-deployed add-ins
After an add-in has been deployed from the portal, the next time a user opens the relevant Office
application, the add-in automatically downloads. If the add-in supports add-in commands, the
add-in's custom buttons automatically appear in the ribbon within the Office application.
Add-ins no longer appear for users if the admin turns off or deletes the add-in. They'll also stop
appearing if the user is removed from Microsoft Entra ID or from a group that the add-in is
assigned to. Learn how to perform these actions in the following section, Deploy your Office
Add-ins.
Deploy your Office Add-ins
Deploying an add-in means you're preinstalling the add-in for a specific set of users in your
organization. The admin fully controls all management actions taken on a deployed add-in. You
can find, test, and fully deploy apps published by Microsoft and other partners. By purchasing
and licensing the apps from the admin center, you add Microsoft and Microsoft partner apps to
your list from a single location.
1. In the admin center, in the left navigation, choose Settings, and then choose Integrated
apps.
2. In the Deployed Apps list, select Get apps to get a view of the apps.
3. On the Microsoft 365 Apps published apps page, select the app you want to deploy by
choosing Get it now. Accept the permissions and select Continue.
4. Select Deploy at the top of the page next to the message that refers to waiting to be
deployed. If the app selected is linked to a SaaS offer by an independent software vendor
(ISV), all the other apps that are part of this linked offer appear on the Configuration page.

--- Page 1072 of 2193 ---
If you choose to deploy all of the apps, select Next. Otherwise, select Edit, and choose
which apps you want to deploy. Some apps require you to add users before you can select
Deploy.
5. Select Add users, and then select either Entire organization, Specific users/groups, or Just
me. Specific users/groups can be a Microsoft 365 group, a security group, or a distribution
group.
6. Select Next to get to the Accept permission request page. The app capabilities and
permissions of each of the apps are listed. If the app needs consent, select Accept
permissions. Only a global administrator can give consent.
7. Select Next to review the deployment and choose Finish deployment. You can view the
deployment from the Overview tab by choosing View this deployment. In the Microsoft
365 admin center, you can see the status of each deployed app and the date you deployed
the app.
It can take up to 24 hours for an add-in to show up for client for all users.
Considerations when deploying an add-in to users and groups
Admins can deploy an add-in to everyone or to specific users and groups. Each option has
implications.
Everyone: This option assigns the add-in to every user in the organization. Use this option
sparingly and only for add-ins that are truly universal to your organization.
Users: If you assign an add-in to an individual user, and then deploy the add-in to a new
user, you must first add the new user.
Groups: If you assign an add-in to a group, users who are added to the group are
automatically assigned the add-in. When a user is removed from a group, the user loses
access to the add-in. In either case, no other action is required from the admin.
Just me: If you assign an add-in to just yourself, the add-in is assigned to only your account,
which is ideal for testing the add-in.
The right option for your organization depends on your configuration. However, we recommend
making assignments by using groups. As an admin, you might find it easier to manage add-ins by
using groups and controlling the membership of those groups rather than assigning individual
users each time. In some situations, you might want to restrict access to a small set of users by
making assignments to specific users by assigning users manually. For example, consider
assigning the add-in to a small set of users first for purposes of testing it.
Recommended approach for deploying Office Add-ins

--- Page 1073 of 2193 ---
To roll out add-ins by using a phased approach, we recommend the following actions.
1. Roll out the add-in to a small set of business stakeholders and members of the IT
department. If the deployment is successful, move to step 2.
2. Roll out the add-in to more individuals within the business. Again, evaluate the results and,
if successful, continue with full deployment.
3. Perform a full rollout to all users.
Depending on the size of the target audience, you can add or remove roll-out steps.
Scenarios where Exchange admin can't deploy an add-in
There are two cases in which an Exchange Admin isn't able to deploy an add-in.
If an add-in needs permission for Microsoft Graph APIs and needs consent from a global
admin.
If an add-in is linked to two or more apps, another admin (Exchange or global) deployed at
least one of those linked apps, and the user assignment isn't uniform. We only allow
deployment of add-ins when the user assignment is the same for all the already deployed
apps.
Edit users for deployed add-ins
Post deployment, admins can also edit the deployed to add-ins.
1. In the admin center, select Settings, then select Integrated apps.
2. On the Integrated apps page, it displays a list of apps that are either single add-ins or add-
ins that are linked with other apps.
3. Select an app and then scroll down to select Edit Users or select the User tab in the
overview pane.
4. Select the user group you want to deploy the add-in to.
5. Review the app information, and then select Update.
７ Note
Only the admin who deployed the add-in or a global admin can manage that add-in.
Update deployed add-ins
Post deployment, admins can also approve updates for the deployed add-ins.

--- Page 1074 of 2193 ---
1. In the admin center, select Settings then select Integrated apps.
2. On the Integrated apps page, it displays a list of apps that are either single add-ins or add-
ins that are linked with other apps.
3. Select an app with Status of More apps available to open the Manage pane. The status of
More apps available lets you know that there are more integrations from the ISVs that
aren't yet deployed.
4. On the Overview tab, select Deploy. Some apps require you to add users before you can
select Deploy.
5. Select Users, select Is this a test deployment, and then select either Entire organization,
Specific users/groups or Just me. You can also select Test deployment if you prefer to wait
to deploy the app to the entire organization. Specific users or groups can be a Microsoft
365 group, a security group, or a distribution group.
6. Select Update and then select Done. You can now select Deploy on the Overview tab.
7. Review the app information, and then select Deploy.
8. Select Done on the Deployment completed page, and review the details of the test or full
deployment on the Overview tab.
9. If the app has a status of Update pending, you can select the app to open the Manage
pane and update the app.
10. To just update users, select the Users tab and make the appropriate change. Select Update
after making your changes.
Delete a deployed add-in
You can also delete an add-in that was deployed.
1. In the admin center, select Settings, then select Integrated apps.
2. Select any row to display the management pane.
3. Select the Configuration tab.
4. Select the add-in that you want to delete and then select Remove.
７ Note
If another admin deployed the add-in, then the Remove button will be disabled. Only the
admin who deployed the app or a global admin can delete the add-in.
Manage how users can install and use Office add-ins

--- Page 1075 of 2193 ---
Managing how users can install and use Office add-ins means that you decide who can or can't
install and use add-ins in your organization. Unlike deploying an add-in that preinstalls for
selected users, managing an add-in allows you to decide which users can self-install Office add-
ins from the stores on the Microsoft applications.
Word, Outlook, and PowerPoint
1. To manage users' ability to self-install and use Office add-ins from the Word, Excel, and
PowerPoint stores, visit the Microsoft 365 Admin Center.
2. Choose Settings and the select Org Settings.
3. Scroll down and select User owned apps and services.
4. Check or clear the option to allow or prevent users to access all Word, Excel, and PowerPoint
add-ins.
Options available in non-educational tenants:
Options available in educational tenants:

--- Page 1076 of 2193 ---
The user's license information is used to define whether a user is a faculty, staff, or a student
along with the Age Group property to check whether the student is an adult or not.
７ Note
For more information, see the following articles.
Learn how to review the user's license type and assign or unassign licenses as
required
Understand how to configure the Age Group property in the Microsoft Encarta
admin center
７ Note
This setting doesn't affect any deployed Office add-ins on Word, Excel, and PowerPoint. You
can continue to deploy Office add-ins to users in your organization, even if the setting is
turned off.
Outlook

--- Page 1077 of 2193 ---
1. To manage users' ability to self-install and use Office add-ins from Outlook store, sign in to
the classic Exchange admin center as a global administrator.
2. Go to Permissions and then select User Roles.
3. Select an existing role assignment policy or create a new policy.
4. Type a name for the policy if you're creating a new policy.
5. Select the following roles: My Custom Apps, My MarketPlaceApps, and My
ReadWriteMailbox Apps.
6. Select Save.
Once the policy is created, you can assign it to users in your organization.
You can also create multiple policies and assign it to different users within your
organization.
7. Activating these checkboxes turns on access to Outlook add-ins for the users assigned to
the policy.
8. Deactivating these checkboxes turns off access to Outlook add-ins for users assigned to the
policy.
７ Note
This setting doesn't affect any deployed Outlook add-ins. You can continue to deploy
Outlook add-ins to users in your organization, even if the setting is turned off.
Microsoft is now partnering with leading developers to create unified apps that work across
Outlook, Word, Excel, PowerPoint, Teams, and the Microsoft 365 App (formerly known as
Office.com). Any settings made for Office Add-ins continue to be honored as long as they stay as
add-ins. When Office add-ins are upgraded to work across different Microsoft applications, you
can learn to manage them from here. For more information, see Apps for Microsoft 365 that work
across application hosts.
Upload Custom Office Add-ins in your organization
You can also upload custom line-of-business add-ins and deploy them to users in your
organization.
1. In the admin center, in the left navigation, choose Settings and then Integrated apps.
2. Select Upload custom apps. The Upload Apps to deploy wizard opens. Custom line-of-
business add-ins for Word, PowerPoint, Excel, and Outlook are supported.

--- Page 1078 of 2193 ---
3. The next steps depend on whether the add-in uses the XML-formatted add-in only manifest
or the unified manifest for Microsoft 365. See Office Add-ins manifest for information about
the difference.
Add-in only manifest:
a. Select Office Add-in on the App type dropdown.
b. In the Choose how to upload app section, do one of the following:
Select the option to upload the manifest, and then select the Choose File button.
Navigate to the add-in's manifest and complete the upload.
Select the option to provide a URL for the manifest, fill in the URL, and then
select Validate.
７ Note
The uploaded manifest size can't exceed 512 KB.
Unified manifest for Microsoft 365:
a. Select Teams app on the App type dropdown (not Office Add-in).
b. Select the Choose File button. Navigate to the add-in's zip-formatted app package
file (which contains the manifest) and complete the upload.
4. Select Next.
5. Select Add users, and then choose either Entire organization, Specific users/groups, or Just
me. Specific users/groups can be a Microsoft 365 group, a security group, or a distribution
group.
6. Select Next to view the Accept permission request page. The app capabilities and
permissions of the apps are listed. If the app needs consent, select Accept permissions.
Only a global administrator can give consent.
7. Select Next to review the deployment and choose Finish deployment. You can view the
deployment from the Overview tab by choosing View this deployment.
More about Office Add-ins security
Office Add-ins combine a manifest file that contains some metadata about the add-in, but most
importantly points to a web application that contains all the code and logic. Add-ins can range in

--- Page 1079 of 2193 ---
their capabilities, but usually read and write data to and from the user's documents.
For more information about the types and capabilities of Office Add-ins, see Office Add-ins
platform overview, especially the section Components of an Office Add-in.
To interact with the user's document, the add-in needs to declare what permission it needs in the
manifest. A five-level JavaScript API access-permissions model provides the basis for privacy and
security for users of task pane add-ins. Most of the add-ins in the Microsoft Marketplace are level
read/write document with almost all add-ins supporting at least the read document level. For
more information about the permission levels, see Requesting permissions for API use in content
and task pane add-ins.
When a manifest is updated, the typical changes are to an add-in's icon and text. Occasionally,
add-in commands change. However, the permissions of the add-in don't change. The web
application where all the code and logic for the add-in runs can change at any time, which is the
nature of web applications.
Updates for add-ins happen as follows.
Line-of-business add-in: In this case, where an admin uploaded a manifest, the admin must
upload the new manifest file to support metadata changes. The next time a user starts the
relevant Microsoft 365 productivity application, the add-in will update.
Microsoft Marketplace add-in: When an admin selected an add-in from Microsoft
Marketplace and then the developer updated the manifest in Microsoft Marketplace, the
admin doesn't have to take any action. The next time a user starts the relevant Microsoft
365 productivity application, the add-in will update.
７ Note
There are other ways for deploying Office Add-ins in certain scenarios. For more information,
see Deploy and publish Office Add-ins.
Last updated on 08/26/2025

--- Page 1080 of 2193 ---
Apps for Microsoft 365 that work across
application hosts
 Tip
See Apps for Microsoft 365 for a quick overview.
An app for Microsoft 365 that uses a sufficiently recent manifest version can work across the
Microsoft 365 Copilot application, Outlook, and Teams. Developers can submit a single app
package that works across Teams, Outlook, and the Microsoft 365 Copilot application. In some
cases, these apps contain closely related sub-apps that are surfaced in in the different host
applications. For more information, see Extend apps across Microsoft 365.
Previously, for an app to work in Teams, Outlook, and the Microsoft 365 Copilot application,
admins needed to manage each app independently across the Teams admin center, Exchange
admin center, and Microsoft 365 admin center. Now admins can manage a single app for
Microsoft 365 from the integrated apps portal.
What are apps that work across application hosts?
There are some apps for Microsoft 365 that are truely the same app surfaced in one or more of
those application hosts. Some examples are in the following list.
Custom personal tabs can be surfaced in the Microsoft 365 Copilot application, Outlook,
and Teams.
Message extensions can be surface in Teams chat and Outlook emails.
In this article, we call these "cross application apps". These apps may be subject to different terms
than other apps for Microsoft 365. Read your license agreement for more details.
７ Note
To be surfaced across the host applications, a app for Microsoft 365 must use a version
of the unified manifest for Microsoft 365 (formerly "Teams manifest") greater than or
equal to v1.13.

--- Page 1081 of 2193 ---
An cross application app for Microsoft 365 that is surfaced in Outlook is not an Office
add-in. But it is possible to include an add-in along with the cross application app in a
single app package. For more information, see General guidance for combining an
Office add-in and a Teams app.
） Important
Any changes made on the integrated apps portal on the Microsoft 365 admin center only
impact whether and how a cross application app is surfaced on Outlook and the Microsoft
365 Copilot application. To manage how these apps show up on Teams, use the Teams
admin center.
The following sections tell you more about the management tools available for cross application
apps for Microsoft 365.
７ Note
For guidance about managing Teams only apps, see Teams apps that only work on Teams.
Before you begin
The following controls on the integrated apps portal in the Microsoft 365 Admin Center are only
available to Global Admins. Check your credentials before you proceed.
） Important
Microsoft recommends that you use roles with the fewest permissions. Using roles with the
fewest permissions helps improve security for your organization. Global Administrator is a
highly privileged role that should be limited to emergency scenarios when you can't use an
existing role. For more information, see About administrator roles in the Microsoft 365
admin center.
Controls for managing cross application apps
As an admin, you can manage cross application apps as follows:

--- Page 1082 of 2193 ---
1. Deploy/Pre-install an app for users in your organization on Outlook and the Microsoft 365
Copilot application (but not on Teams).
2. Manage how users can install and use these apps on Outlook and the Microsoft 365 Copilot
application (but not on Teams).
3. Upload custom cross application apps for your organization.
Deploy a cross application app for Microsoft 365 via
the integrated apps portal
As an admin, you can now deploy these apps to a specific set of users, the entire organization, or
just to yourself from the integrated apps portal on Microsoft 365 admin center. Deploying an app
means that it is preinstalled for the selected users on the applicable hosts of the app.
1. Sign into Microsoft 365 admin center as a Global Administrator.
2. Select Settings and then select Integrated Apps.
3. Select Get apps in the Deployed Apps list. This action opens up Microsoft Marketplace in
embedded form from where you can select the app that you want to deploy.
4. Next, you see the deployment screen where general information about the app is given and
the applicable products on which the app is deployed.
5. Click Next to select the set of users to whom you want to deploy the app. Read more about
user groups and assignments.
6. Next, accept permissions if there are any. Then select Next.
7. Review and finish the deployment of the app. This app is now preinstalled for all selected
users in the applicable hosts.
As a Global Administrator, you can also initiate deployment of an app from its overview pane in
the Available Apps list on the integrated apps portal.
1. Select the app you wish to deploy from the Available Apps list on Integrated Apps.
2. Next, select Deploy app in the overview pane.
3. Complete the deployment steps as described earlier in this section.
） Important
Any changes made to these apps from the integrated apps portal on the Microsoft 365
admin center only impact these apps on Outlook and the Microsoft 365 Copilot application.
To manage how these apps show up on Teams, use the Teams admin center.

--- Page 1083 of 2193 ---
As an admin, you can also take management actions on these apps such as removing the
deployment or editing user access.
７ Note
On the Integrated Apps page, the CoPilot app settings apply to both Microsoft 365 Copilot
and the Copilot Chat apps. Any changes made to this app from the integrated apps portal
apply to both.
To remove the deployment of this app
1. Select Remove app in the overview tab of an app from the Deployed Apps list.
2. Consent to the removal terms.
3. Select Remove, then select Done.
To edit the user assignment of an app
1. Select Edit users in the overview tab of an app from the Deployed Apps list.
2. Change the user assignment to deploy this app for a new set of users.
3. Select Update, then select Done.
Manage how users can install cross application apps for
Microsoft 365
As an admin, you can manage availability or how users can install such apps in your organization.
You have complete control over who can or can't install and use apps in your organization. Unlike
deploying an app that you pre-install for selected users, managing availability of an app allows
you to decide which users can self-install these apps from the stores on the Microsoft
applications.
The following sections tell you more about the tools available for managing availability of these
apps on Outlook and the Microsoft 365 Copilot application.
How to see the available and blocked apps in your organization
1. Sign into Microsoft 365 admin center as a Global Administrator.
2. Select Settings, then select Integrated Apps.
3. Select the Available Apps or Blocked Apps list. Here you can view the status of all apps in
the public catalog, and any custom line-of-business apps uploaded from the Teams or

--- Page 1084 of 2193 ---
Microsoft 365 admin centers.
4. Select an app to view more details about the app, applicable host products, and availability
status within your organization.
How to block an app
You can block an app for all users in your organization to restrict them from downloading and
using the app on the Microsoft 365 Copilot application and Outlook.
1. Sign into Microsoft 365 admin center as a Global Administrator.
2. Select Settings, and then select Integrated Apps.
3. Select the Available Apps list.
4. Select an app from the Available Apps list to open the overview pane.
5. Select Block app.
6. Consent to blocking the app by selecting Yes, I'm sure I want to block this app.
7. Select Block. You can now see this app in the Blocked Apps list.
When you choose to block an app, it is blocked for all users in your organization. Blocking an app
overrides any previous admin deployment or user installation in Microsoft 365 and Outlook so
that no one in your organization can use the app.
７ Note
The app is only be blocked in the Microsoft 365 Copilot application and Outlook. Teams
continues to honor the current setting for Teams Apps made in the Teams admin center and
for Outlook apps made in the Exchange admin center. For more details, read What happens
to your existing settings for Teams and Outlook.
How to unblock an app
You can unblock an app so that it can start showing up in the Microsoft 365 Copilot application
and Outlook.
1. Sign in to Microsoft 365 admin center as a Global Administrator.
2. Select Settings, and then select Integrated Apps.
3. Select the Blocked Apps list.
4. Select an app from the Blocked Apps list to launch the overview pane.
5. Select Unblock app.

--- Page 1085 of 2193 ---
6. Read the availability and deployment status that the app reverts to after unblocking. These
statuses are the last saved ones of the app before it was blocked.
7. Select Unblock. You can now see this app in the Available Apps list and/or the Deployed
Apps list.
When you choose to unblock an app, the app reverts to the last saved state of availability and
deployment. If the app doesn't have any availability status set, the app reverts to the default
tenant setting. Learn more about these controls in the following section.
How to manage the availability of an app in your organization
As an admin, you can control which apps can be installed and used by which users in your
organization. By changing the availability, you're deciding how end users in your organization can
install these apps from the store and use them on Outlook and the Microsoft 365 Copilot
application. Admins can edit the availability of all Microsoft Marketplace apps and line-of-
business (LOB) apps uploaded by them.
1. Sign into the Microsoft 365 admin center as a Global Administrator.
2. Select Settings, then select Integrated Apps.
3. Select the Available Apps list.
4. Next, select the app you want to edit. This launches the app's overview pane.
5. Scroll down and select Edit Users or select the Users tab in the overview pane. Read more
about user groups and assignments earlier in this article.
6. Select the availability status of the app you want to set:
No users in the organization can install means that no one in the organization can
install this app on their own from the store and use it in the client.
All users in the organization can install means that everyone in the organization can
install this app on their own from the store and use it in the client.
Specific users/group in the organization can install means that only the users
selected by you are able to install the app on their own from the store and use it in the
client. Unselected users are not able to do so.
7. Select Save.
７ Note
The availability setting of an app doesn't impact any admin deployed apps. The availability
setting only allows you to control which end users can install and use these apps on their

--- Page 1086 of 2193 ---
own. Any previous admin deployments made are still be honored.
７ Note
Availability setting of an app overrides the state set in default tenant setting. Learn more
about default state settings in the following section.
Customize default settings for cross application apps for
Microsoft 365
As an admin, you can control the default state of any new and incoming app in your organization.
You can do this individually for Microsoft apps, third party apps, and custom apps. The default
setting for any organization is set to Allow all users in the organization to access apps. You can
change this default setting on the integrated apps portal in the Microsoft 365 admin center.
1. Sign into the Microsoft 365 admin center as a Global Administrator.
2. Select Settings, then select Integrated Apps.
3. Select the Available Apps list.
4. Next, select the Settings icon at the top of the apps list to open the Customize default
settings pane.
5. For each app type category, set up the toggle to allow or disallow user's installation of all
apps.
When you switch the toggle to Yes, users can install the apps of that app type.
When you switch the toggle to No, users aren't allowed to install apps of that app
type. Additionally, apps previously installed by users under that app type are no longer
be accessible to the users. This action does not impact an admin's ability to install the
apps. When the toggle is switched to No, admins can still install the apps, and all
admin-installed apps continue to be accessible to the users.
The default tenant state applies to the following apps:
All new and incoming cross application apps for Microsoft 365.
All cross application apps published in the past that the weren't blocked by the admin.
If an app was previously blocked for Outlook and the Microsoft 365 Copilot application,
it continues to remain blocked even after the default state for the tenant is changed.
When admins unblock the app, it reverts to the default state set for the tenant on
Outlook and the Microsoft 365 Copilot application.

--- Page 1087 of 2193 ---
All cross application apps published in the past that were deployed by the admin.
The default tenant state also applies to admin-deployed apps. If an app was previously
deployed by the admin to a set of users for Outlook and the Microsoft 365 Copilot
application, it continues to remain deployed to the selected set of users, even after the
default state for the tenant is changed.
The default tenant state won't apply to the following apps:
Apps that have any user selections made by the admin.
The changes made by the admin as part of How to manage the availability of an app in
your organization are honored over the default state in the tenant. Once an admin
specifies users for an app, this setting supersedes the tenant-wide default setting for that
app.
What happens to your settings on Teams and Outlook
Any existing settings made on the Teams admin center continues to be honored on the Teams
client.
As an example, the Foo Teams-only app recently upgraded to a cross application app.
ﾉ Expand table
Impact on Teams Impact on Microsoft 365 Impact on Outlook client
client
If you had Users in your Users in your organization can Users in your organization
previously organization can't download and use Foo in the can download and use Foo
blocked the Foo download and use Microsoft 365 Copilot in Outlook. This can be
app on the Teams Foo on Teams. application. This can be controlled by admins on the
admin center controlled by admins on the Microsoft 365 admin center.
Microsoft 365 admin center.
If you had Users in your Users in your organization can Users in your organization
previously organization can download and use Foo in the can download and use Foo
allowed the Foo download and use Microsoft 365 Copilot in Outlook. This can be
app on the Teams the Foo in Teams. application. This can be controlled by admins on the
admin center controlled by admins on the Microsoft 365 admin center.
Microsoft 365 admin center.
Now that Foo is a cross application app, you can make changes to its availability from the
Microsoft 365 admin center.

--- Page 1088 of 2193 ---
ﾉ Expand table
Impact on Teams client Impact on Microsoft 365 Impact on Outlook client
If you block No impact. Users in your Users in your organization Users in your organization
Foo App in the organization continue to can't download the Foo on can't download the Foo
Microsoft 365 experience Teams behavior the Microsoft 365 Copilot App on Outlook, and can't
admin center for Foo based on the application, and can't use any use any previously
admin settings in Teams previously installed (by installed (by user/admin)
admin center. user/admin) Foo app. Foo app.
If you unblock No impact. Users in your Users in your organization can Users in your organization
Foo in the organization continue to download and use Foo on the can download and use Foo
Microsoft 365 experience Teams behavior Microsoft 365 Copilot in Outlook. Users can use
admin center. for Foo based on the application. Users can use any any previously installed
admin settings in Teams previously installed (by (by user/admin) Foo app.
admin center. user/admin) Foo app.
Upload custom cross application apps
You can also upload custom line of business apps and deploy/pre-install them for users in your
organization:
1. In the Microsoft 365 admin center, in the left nav, choose Settings and then Integrated
apps.
2. Select Upload custom apps.
3. Select Teams App on the App type dropdown.
4. Upload the app package zip file from your device.
5. Select Next.
6. Select Add users, and then select either Entire organization, Specific users/groups, or Just
me. Specific users/groups can be a Microsoft 365 group, a security group, or a distributed
group. Read more about user groups and assignments.
7. Select Next to view the Accept permission request page. The app capabilities and
permissions of the apps are listed. If the app needs consent, select Accept permissions.
Only a global administrator can give consent.
8. Select Next to review the deployment and choose Finish deployment. You can view the
deployment from the Overview tab by choosing View this deployment.
Whenever a custom line of business app is uploaded, it is made available to all users in the
organization for installation and use by default. You can edit the availability of this custom line of
business app from the Available apps list. For more information, see the section about how to
manage availability of an app in your organization.

--- Page 1089 of 2193 ---
As a Global Administrator, you can also initiate deployment of a custom app (uploaded from
Teams Admin Center) from its overview pane in the Available Apps list on the integrated apps
portal.
1. Once the app is uploaded from Teams Admin Center, it shows up in the Available Apps list
on Integrated Apps with the availability status of All users in the organization can install.
2. Select the app from the Available Apps list on Integrated Apps.
3. Next, select Deploy app in the overview pane.
4. Complete the deployment steps as listed above.
Once finished, the app is deployed to Outlook and the Microsoft 365 Copilot application. To
manage this app on Teams, visit Teams Admin Center.
７ Note
Before uploading a custom app from the integrated apps portal on Microsoft 365 admin
center, please verify whether this app is already visible in the Available Apps list. If it is
visible, please deploy the app using the steps outlined above. Do not upload it again.
Removal of a custom app
1. Select Remove app in the overview tab of an app from the Deployed Apps list.
2. Consent to the removal terms.
3. Select Remove, then select Done.
７ Note
Removing a custom app from the Deployed Apps list on the integrated apps portal deletes
the deployment and the app is no longer available for installation to end users in your
organization on Outlook and/or the Microsoft 365 Copilot application. If the custom app is
also supported on Teams, it is removed from the Teams admin center.
Please verify whether the app was successfully removed from both the Microsoft 365 admin
center and Teams admin center.
Last updated on 01/23/2026

--- Page 1090 of 2193 ---
Teams apps that only work on Teams
Some Teams apps cannot be surfaced in Outlook or the Microsoft 365 Copilot application, either
because the app wouldn't make sense in those hosts or because they use a manifest version less
than 1.13. These apps, which are sometimes called "pure Teams apps" or "Teams only apps" to
distinguish them from cross application apps, can be identified in the integrated apps portal by
the availability status Some or all users in the organization can install in the Available Apps list.
Admins cannot preinstall or remove these apps, but they can block or unblock them.
Before you begin
These apps only show up on the Available Apps list based on your settings in Teams admin
center. Verify if your settings in the Teams admin center are for non-Microsoft apps.
If access to non-Microsoft apps on Teams admin center is turned on, admins can start
seeing these apps on the integrated apps portal in the Available apps and Blocked apps
lists based on their setting in Teams admin center.
If access to non-Microsoft apps on Teams admin center is turned off, no such apps are
visible on the integrated apps portal.
These apps always have the availability status of Some or all users in the organization can
install. These apps always have only Teams as the host product. To know more about which
users can access this app on Teams, visit the Teams admin center.
） Important
Microsoft recommends that you use roles with the fewest permissions. Using roles with the
fewest permissions helps improve security for your organization. Global Administrator is a
highly privileged role that should be limited to emergency scenarios when you can't use an
existing role. For more information, see About administrator roles in the Microsoft 365
admin center.
How to block a Teams app on Teams
1. Sign into Microsoft 365 admin center as a global administrator.
2. Select Settings, and then select Integrated Apps.
3. Select the Available Apps list.

--- Page 1091 of 2193 ---
4. Select an app with the status Some or all users in the organization can install from the
Available Apps list to open the overview pane. These apps will always have only Teams
listed as host product.
5. Select Block app.
6. Consent to blocking the app by selecting Yes, I'm sure I want to block this app.
7. Select Block. You can now see this app in the Blocked Apps list. When the admin blocks
such an app, it's blocked for all users in the organization on the Teams client.
How to unblock a Teams app on Teams?
1. Sign into Microsoft 365 admin center as a global administrator.
2. Select Settings, and then select Integrated Apps.
3. Select the Blocked Apps list.
4. Select an app from the Blocked Apps list to open the overview pane.
5. Select Unblock app.
6. Read the availability and deployment status that the app will revert to after unblocking.
These statutes are the last saved ones of the app before it was blocked.
7. Select Unblock. You can now see this app in the Available Apps list and/or the Deployed
Apps list based on the last saved setting.
When the admin unblocks such an app, it's reverted to the last saved setting as set by the admin
in Teams admin center. Visit Teams admin center to know the latest status of the app on Teams.
７ Note
Teams apps with availability status as Some or all users in the organization can install can
only be blocked on unblocked on the integrated apps portal for the Teams client. For any
other management actions on these apps or to view how these apps show up on Teams to
users in your organization, please visit the Teams admin center.
Last updated on 01/23/2026

--- Page 1092 of 2193 ---
SaaS linked apps
The Microsoft 365 admin center gives you the flexibility to deploy single store apps, custom
business line of apps, and bundled apps - also called SaaS linked apps - from a single location.
We invited our independent software vendor (ISV) partners to link their SaaS offer with related
free apps, such as apps for Microsoft 365, Teams apps, Office add-ins, and SharePoint Framework
solutions. For more information on how partners create these apps, see How to plan a SaaS offer
for the commercial marketplace .
We help our admins discover these linked apps with the SaaS offer and manage them all at once
from the integrated apps portal. The UX on the integrated apps portal allows the admin to apply
the same gesture across all the apps at once.
An admin can choose not to deploy an app that is linked to an SaaS offer. In the integrated apps
portal, admins then find the status of More apps available in the Deployed Apps list view. This
status is to inform the admins that there are more integrations from the ISVs that aren't
deployed.
Unsupported scenarios
There are some scenarios when SaaS linked apps can't be managed from the integrated apps
portal. You aren't able to deploy a single store add-in from the integrated apps portal for the
following scenarios:
The same add-in is linked to more than one SaaS offer.
The SaaS offer is linked to add-ins, but it doesn't integrate with Microsoft Graph and no
Microsoft Entra App ID is provided.
The SaaS offer is linked to add-ins, but Microsoft Entra App ID provided for Microsoft Graph
integration is shared across multiple SaaS offers.
Last updated on 08/26/2025

--- Page 1093 of 2193 ---
Manage agents in the Microsoft 365
admin center
） Important
This article is intended for IT administrators.
The capability is enabled by default in all Microsoft 365 Copilot licensed tenants.
Microsoft 365 Copilot combines the power of large language models with your data and apps in
Microsoft 365. It captures natural language commands to produce content and analyze data. It
enables access to and use of other apps, such as Jira, Dynamics 365, or Bing Web Search.
You can manage agents for Copilot by using the Microsoft 365 admin center . You can enable,
disable, assign, block, or remove agents for your organization, and manage Copilot capabilities.
７ Note
Researcher and Analyst are first-party Microsoft experiences built on the same foundation as
Microsoft 365 Copilot, operating entirely within the Microsoft 365 commercial data
processing boundary. These tools inherit all existing security, privacy, and compliance
commitments that apply across the suite of Microsoft 365 products. These tools are available
in Microsoft 365 Copilot Chat under Tools and can be invoked by the user anytime. While
Researcher and Analyst coexist with agents and abide by all the agent-related governance
capabilities, Researcher and Analyst are part of the core Copilot chat experience and will not
fall under any agent-related settings. For related information, see Agent settings in
Microsoft 365 admin center.
Microsoft Agent 365 is the control plane for AI agents, empowering your organization to
confidently deploy, govern, and manage all your agents at scale, regardless of where these
agents are built or acquired. For more information, see Overview of Microsoft Agent 365
and Microsoft Agent 365 documentation.
Overview

--- Page 1094 of 2193 ---
Agents enhance the functionality of Copilot by adding search capabilities, custom actions,
connectors, and APIs. Agents are custom versions of Microsoft 365 Copilot that combine
instructions, knowledge, and skills to perform specific tasks or scenarios. For more information
about using agents with Copilot, see Get started with agents in the Microsoft 365 Copilot app .
The members of your organization can find and add agents from the Agent Store within the
Microsoft 365 Copilot app. However, before users can access these agents, each agent must
undergo a streamlined process of submission and approval. Agents are managed in the Agent
Registry of Microsoft 365 admin center. As part of agent management, you can review agent
requests and determine whether to publish the agent to the store or reject the agent submission.
For more information, see Agent management in Microsoft 365 admin center. Members of your
organization can only access the agents that you have allowed.
Agent types you can manage
You can manage several types of agents in Microsoft 365 Copilot, each serving different
purposes:
Published by your organization: Built with predefined instructions and actions. These
agents follow structured logic and are best for predictable, rule-based tasks. Before you
make these agents available to members of your organization, these agents go through an
admin approval to ensure compliance and readiness. For more information, see Manage
agent requests in Microsoft 365 admin center.
７ Note
Publishing agents to the organization is supported in Microsoft 365 Government
Community Cloud High (GCCH) and Government Community Cloud Moderate (GCCM)
environments.
Shared by creator: Shared agents are custom versions of Microsoft 365 Copilot that
combine instructions, knowledge, and skills to perform specific tasks or scenarios. Creators
can create and share these agents through multiple channels, such as Microsoft 365 Copilot
Studio, Microsoft 365 Copilot Agent Builder, and more. Shared agents enhance the
functionality of Copilot by adding search capabilities, custom actions, connectors, and APIs.
For more information, see Share agents with other users.
As an admin, you can view shared agents on the Agents page in the Microsoft 365 admin
center. You can see a list of all shared agents in the Agent Registry, including details such as

--- Page 1095 of 2193 ---
the agent's name, creator, creation date, host products, and availability status. You can
search for specific agents and manage their lifecycle, including blocking agents that are
deemed unsafe or noncompliant.
For your users, shared agents are available through Copilot on different surfaces. Users can
interact with these agents to perform specific tasks or get assistance based on the agent's
capabilities.
Microsoft agents: Developed by Microsoft and integrated with Microsoft 365 services.
External partner agents: Created by external developers or vendors. You can control their
availability and permissions.
Frontier agents: Experimental or advanced agents that use new capabilities or integrations.
These agents might be in early stages of development or testing and could require more
oversight or limited rollout.
App Builder agent: A type of Frontier agent developed by Microsoft that can be
managed as part of Microsoft 365 Copilot. You can also manage App Builder using Power
Platform admin center .
Workflows agent: A type of Frontier agent developed by Microsoft that can be managed
as part of Microsoft 365 Copilot. Flows created in Copilot are saved to the default
environment unless environment routing is enabled for Copilot Studio. You can also
manage flows using the Power Platform admin center .
Get started
To get started managing agents within Microsoft 365 admin center, see Agent management in
Microsoft 365 admin center. You will learn about agent management roles and permissions, as
well as agent inventory, lifecycle, tools, and settings.
） Important
Use roles with the fewest permissions. Accounts with lower permissions help improve
security for your organization. Global Administrator is a highly privileged role. Limit its use to
emergency scenarios when you can't use an existing role. For more information, see About
admin roles in the Microsoft 365 admin center.

--- Page 1096 of 2193 ---

Related articles
Agent management in Microsoft 365 admin center.
Last updated on 05/18/2026

--- Page 1097 of 2193 ---
Determine if centralized deployment of
Office Add-ins works for your organization
The integrated apps portal is the recommended and most feature-rich way for most customers
to centrally deploy Office Add-ins to users and groups within your organization.
However, if the integrated apps portal isn't available to you, or if you're a customer in a
sovereign or government cloud (GCC, GCC‑H, DoD, AirGap, or Gallatin), use this article as
guidance. Use it to determine whether your organization and users meet the requirements for
centralized deployment.
Centralized deployment allows admins to deploy Office Add-ins to users and groups within an
organization. It provides the following benefits:
An admin can deploy and assign an add-in directly to a user, to multiple users via a
group, or to everyone in the organization (see Admin requirement section for
information).
When the relevant Office application starts, the add-in automatically downloads. If the
add-in supports add-in commands, the add-in automatically appears in the ribbon within
the Microsoft 365 application.
Add-ins no longer appear for users if:
The admin turns off or deletes the add-in.
The user is removed from Microsoft Entra ID or from a group that the add-in is
assigned to.
Centralized deployment supports two platforms: Office on Windows and Mac. It also supports
Office for the web. For Outlook Mobile Add-ins only, centralized deployment also supports iOS
and Android.
） Important
After you centrally deploy an add-in, it can take up to 24 hours for the add-in to appear
on all users' clients.
Before you begin
Centralized deployment of add-ins requires that the users have one of the following licenses:
Microsoft 365 Business (Business Basic, Business Standard, Business Premium).
Office 365 Enterprise (E1/E3/E5/F3).

--- Page 1098 of 2193 ---
Microsoft 365 Enterprise (E3/E5/F3) (and are signed in Microsoft 365 using their
organizational ID).
Office 365 Education (A1/A3/A5).
Microsoft 365 Education (A3/A5).
Office 365 Government (G3/G5).
Microsoft 365 Government (G3/G5).
Users must also have Exchange Online and active Exchange Online mailboxes. Your
subscription directory must either be in or federated to Microsoft Entra ID.
The following are specific requirements for Microsoft 365 and Exchange, or use the Centralized
Deployment Compatibility Checker.
Centralized deployment doesn't support the following items:
Add-ins that target Office MSI versions, except Outlook.
An on-premises directory service.
Add-in deployment to an Exchange on-premises Mailbox.
Add-in deployment to SharePoint.
Apps for Microsoft 365 that include more than an add-in (For example, an app for
Microsoft 365 that includes a Teams app).
Deployment of Component Object Model (COM) or Visual Studio Tools for Office (VSTO)
add-ins.
Deployments of Microsoft 365 that don't include Exchange Online such as SKUs:
Microsoft 365 Apps for Business and Microsoft 365 Apps for Enterprise.
Microsoft 365 requirements
For Word, Excel, and PowerPoint add-ins, your users must use one of the following versions:
On a Windows device, Version 1704 or later of Microsoft 365 Business licenses (Microsoft
365 Business Basic, Microsoft 365 Business Standard, Microsoft 365 Business Premium),
Office 365 Enterprise licenses (E1/E3/E5/F3), or Microsoft 365 for enterprise licenses
(E3/E5/F3).
On a Mac, Version 15.34 or later.
For Outlook, your users must use one of the following versions:
ﾉ Expand table

--- Page 1099 of 2193 ---
Product/Platform Minimum version Add-in Add-in in
required in My Outlook
add-ins ribbon
Microsoft 365 Business licenses (Microsoft 365 Business Version 1701 or ✅
Basic, Microsoft 365 Business Standard, Microsoft 365 later
Business Premium), Office 365 Enterprise licenses
(E1/E3/E5/F3), or Microsoft 365 for enterprise licenses
(E3/E5/F3)
Office Professional Plus 2019 or Office Standard 2019 Version 1808 or ✅
later
Office Professional Plus 2016 (MSI) or Office Standard 2016 Version ✅
(MSI)* 16.0.4494.1000 or
later
Office Professional Plus 2013 (MSI) or Office Standard 2013 Version ✅
(MSI)* 15.0.4937.1000 or
later
Office 2016 for Mac Version ✅
16.0.9318.1000 or
later
Outlook mobile for iOS Version 2.75.0 or ✅
later
Outlook mobile for Android Version 2.2.145 or ✅
later
Exchange Online requirements
Microsoft Exchange stores the add-in manifests within your organization's tenant. The admin
deploying add-ins and the users receiving those add-ins must be on a version of Exchange
Online that supports OAuth authentication.
To find out which configuration is in use, check with your organization's Exchange admin. You
can verify OAuth connectivity per user by using the Test-OAuthConnectivity PowerShell cmdlet.
Exchange Online user role requirements
Use the Exchange admin center (EAC) to assign permissions to users. The following steps detail
the permissions required to view and modify deployed add-ins.
1. Sign in to the classic EAC with an account with appropriate permissions.

--- Page 1100 of 2193 ---
2. Go to Permissions and then select User Roles.
3. Select an existing role assignment policy or create a new policy.
4. Type a name for the policy if you're creating a new policy.
5. Select the following roles: My Custom Apps, My MarketPlace Apps, and My
ReadWriteMailbox Apps.
6. Select Save.
７ Note
These roles are selected by default.
For more information, see Manage role groups in Exchange Online. For a detailed description
of the different roles, see Role assignment policies in Exchange Online.
Check the AppsForOfficeEnabled parameter
If you're deploying Office add-ins and none are showing up, then as a first troubleshooting
step, use the Get-OrganizationConfig | fl AppsForOfficeEnabled PowerShell command. If the
query returns a value of False, set this parameter to True using the Set-OrganizationConfig -
AppsForOfficeEnabled:$True command. The add-ins should then appear as expected.
We don't recommend that the AppsForOfficeEnabled parameter be set to False. A value of
False overrides all the Administrative and User role settings and prevent any new apps from
being activated by any user in the organization.
Admin requirements
To deploy an add-in through centralized deployment, you need to be an Exchange admin in
the organization.
７ Note
An Exchange admin can deploy an add-in if they add the Application Administrator role
or set the App Registrations property to true in Microsoft Entra admin center, as shown in
the following image:

--- Page 1101 of 2193 ---

Centralized Deployment Compatibility Checker
By using the Centralized Deployment Compatibility Checker, you can verify whether the users
in your tenant are set up to use centralized deployment for Word, Excel, and PowerPoint. The
Compatibility Checker isn't required for Outlook support. Download and install the
compatibility checker .
７ Note
The Compatibility Checker currently isn't supported in any of the sovereign or government
clouds (GCC, GCC-H, DoD, AirGap, Gallatin).
Run the compatibility checker
1. Start an elevated PowerShell.exe window.
2. Run the following command:
PowerShell
Import-Module O365CompatibilityChecker
3. Run the Invoke-CompatibilityCheck command:
PowerShell

--- Page 1102 of 2193 ---
Invoke-CompatibilityCheck
This command prompts you for TenantDomain (for example,
TailspinToysIncorporated.onmicrosoft.com) and TenantAdmin credentials, and then
requests consent.
７ Note
Depending on the number of users in your tenant, the checker can complete in
minutes or hours.
When the tool finishes running, it produces an output file in comma-separated (.csv) format.
The tool saves the file to the current working directory by default. The output file contains the
following information:
User name.
User ID (User's email address).
Centralized Deployment ready - If the remaining items are true.
Microsoft 365 plan - The plan of Office they're licensed for.
Microsoft 365 Activated - If they activated Microsoft 365.
Supported Mailbox - If they are on an OAuth-enabled mailbox.
If your Microsoft 365 reports show anonymous user names instead of actual user names, fix
this issue by changing the reports setting in Microsoft 365 admin center. For detailed steps, see
Microsoft 365 reports show anonymous user names instead of actual user names.
７ Note
Multifactor authentication isn't supported when using the Central Deployment PowerShell
module. The module only works with Basic authentication.
User and group assignments
The centralized deployment feature currently supports most groups supported by Microsoft
Entra ID, including:
Microsoft 365 groups.
Distribution lists.
Dynamic groups.
Security groups.

--- Page 1103 of 2193 ---
７ Note
The feature doesn't currently support non-mail-enabled security groups.
Centralized deployment supports assignments to individual users, groups, and everyone in the
tenant. Centralized deployment supports users in top-level groups (groups without parent
groups), but not users in nested groups (groups that have parent groups).
Take a look at the following example where Sandra, Sheila, and the Sales Department group are
assigned to an add-in. Because the West Coast Sales Department is a nested group, Bert and
Fred aren't assigned to an add-in.

Find out if a group contains nested groups
The easiest way to detect if a group contains nested groups is to view the group contact card
within Outlook. If you enter the group name within the To field of an email and then select the
group name when it resolves, it shows you if it contains users or nested groups. In the
following example, the Members tab of the Outlook contact card for the Test Group shows no
users and only two sub groups.

--- Page 1104 of 2193 ---

You can do the opposite query by resolving the group to see if it's a member of any group. In
the following example, you can see under the Membership tab of the Outlook contact card
that Sub Group 1 is a member of the Test Group.

Alternately, you can use the Microsoft Graph API to run queries to find the list of groups within
a group. For more information, see Manage groups in Microsoft Graph.
Contact Microsoft for support
If you or your users encounter problems loading the add-in while using centrally deployed
Microsoft 365 apps for the web (Word, Excel, etc.), contact Microsoft support. Provide the
following information about your Microsoft 365 environment in the support ticket.
ﾉ Expand table
Platform Debug information
Microsoft 365 Charles/Fiddler logs
Tenant ID (learn how)
CorrelationID: View the source of one of the Office pages and look for the
Correlation ID value and send it to support. For example:
<input name=" **wdCorrelationId**" type="hidden" value=" **{BC17079E-

--- Page 1105 of 2193 ---
Platform Debug information
505F-3000-C177-26A8E27EB623}**">
<input name="user_id" type="hidden" value="1003bffd96933623"></form>
Rich clients Charles/Fiddler logs
(Windows, Mac) Build numbers of the client app (preferably as a screenshot from
File/Account)
Related content
Deploy add-ins in the admin center.
Manage add-ins in the admin center.
Centralized Deployment FAQ.
Upgrade your Microsoft 365 for business users to the latest version.
Last updated on 03/19/2026

--- Page 1106 of 2193 ---
Deploy Office Add-ins in the Microsoft 365
admin center
７ Note
The integrated apps portal is the recommended and most feature-rich way for most
customers to centrally deploy Office Add-ins to users and groups within your
organization. If that method isn't available for your organization, use the add-in portal as
described in Deploy an Office Add-in using the admin center later in this article.
Office Add-ins help you personalize your documents and streamline the way you access
information on the web. As an admin, you can deploy Office Add-ins for the users in your
organization by using the centralized deployment feature in the Microsoft 365 admin center .
For more information, see Start using your Office Add-in .
For more information on how to determine if your organization can support centralized
deployment, see Determine if centralized deployment of Office Add-ins works for your
organization.
To learn more about managing add-ins after deployment, see Manage add-ins in the Microsoft
365 admin center.
７ Note
There are other ways for deploying Office Add-ins in certain scenarios. For more
information, see Deploy and publish Office Add-ins.
Recommended rollout strategy for Office Add-ins
To roll out add-ins by using a phased approach, follow these steps:
1. Roll out the add-in to a small set of business stakeholders and members of the IT
department. If the deployment is successful, move to the next step.
2. Roll out the add-in to more individuals within the business. Again, evaluate the results
and, if successful, continue with full deployment.
3. Perform a full rollout to all users.
Depending on the size of the target audience, you can add or remove roll-out steps.

--- Page 1107 of 2193 ---
Deploy an Office Add-in using the admin center
Before you begin, see Determine if centralized deployment of add-ins works for your
organization.
To deploy an Office Add-in using the Microsoft 365 admin center, follow these steps:
1. Sign in to the Microsoft 365 admin center .
2. From the left navigation bar, select … Show all, and then select Settings > Integrated
apps.
3. Select the Add-ins link near the top of the Integrated apps page.
4. Select Deploy Add-in at the top of the page.


--- Page 1108 of 2193 ---
5. Select Next on the Deploy a new add-in wizard.
6. Select an option and follow the instructions. Office Store refers to Microsoft Marketplace.

7. If you select the option to add an add-in from Microsoft Marketplace, make your add-in
selection.
You can view available add-ins by categories: Suggested for you, Rating, or Name. After
you select an add-in, accept the terms and conditions to proceed.

--- Page 1109 of 2193 ---

７ Note
When you use the Microsoft Marketplace (Microsoft Store) option, updates and
enhancements are automatically deployed to users.
8. If you choose to upload a custom add-in, carry out the following steps:
a. In the Choose how to upload app section, do one of the following steps:
Select the option to upload the manifest, and then select the Choose File button.
Navigate to the add-in's manifest and select it.
） Important

--- Page 1110 of 2193 ---
Only add-ins that use the add-in only manifest can be deployed from the
add-in portal at this time. To deploy an add-in that uses the Microsoft 365
unified manifest, you must use the integrated apps portal. See Office Add-
ins manifest for information about the difference.
Select the option to provide a URL for the manifest, and then fill in the URL.
b. Select Upload.
9. On the next page, select Everyone, Specific users/groups, or Just me to specify who the
add-in is deployed to. Use the Search box to find specific users or groups.

７ Note

--- Page 1111 of 2193 ---
To learn about other states that apply to an add-in, see Add-in states.
10. Select Deploy.
11. A green checkmark appears when the add-in is deployed. To test the add-in, follow the
on-page instructions.
７ Note
Users might need to relaunch the relevant Office application to view the add-in icon
on the ribbon. Office Add-ins can take 24-72 hours to appear on the ribbon.
12. When finished, select Next. If you deployed the add-in to just yourself, select Change
who has access to add-in to deploy to more users.
If you deploy the add-in to other members of your organization, follow the instructions to
announce the deployment of the add-in.
It's good practice to inform users and groups that the deployed add-in is available.
Consider sending an email that describes when and how to use the add-in. Include or link
to Help content or FAQs that might help users if they have problems with the add-in.
Considerations when assigning an add-in to users and groups
Exchange admins can assign an add-in to everyone or to specific users and groups. Each
option has implications:
Everyone: This option assigns the add-in to every user in the organization. Use this
option sparingly and only for add-ins that are truly universal to your organization.
Users: If you assign an add-in to an individual user, and then deploy the add-in to a new
user, you must first add the new user.
Groups: If you assign an add-in to a group, users who are added to the group are
automatically assigned the add-in. When a user is removed from a group, the user loses
access to the add-in. In either case, no additional action is required from the admin.
Just me: If you assign an add-in to just yourself, the add-in is assigned to only your
account, which is ideal for testing the add-in.
The right option for your organization depends on your configuration. However, we
recommend making assignments by using groups. As an admin, you might find it easier to
manage add-ins by using groups and controlling the membership of those groups rather than

--- Page 1112 of 2193 ---
assigning individual users each time. In some situations, you might want to restrict access to a
small set of users by assigning specific users manually.
Security and permission considerations for admins
Office Add-ins combine a manifest file that contains some metadata about the add-in, but
most importantly points to a web application that contains the code and logic. Office Add-ins
can range in their capabilities. For example, add-ins can:
Display data.
Provide contextual services by reading a user's document.
Provide value to that user by reading and writing data to and from a user's document.
For more information about the types and capabilities of Office Add-ins, see Office Add-ins
platform overview, especially the section "Anatomy of an Office Add-in."
To interact with the user's document, the add-in needs to declare what permission it needs in
the manifest. A five-level JavaScript API access-permissions model provides the basis for
privacy and security for users of task pane add-ins. Most add-ins in Microsoft Marketplace are
level read/write document with most add-ins supporting at least the read document level. For
more information about the permission levels, see Requesting permissions for API use in
content and task pane add-ins.
When you update a manifest, typical changes are to an add-in's icon and text. Occasionally,
add-in commands change. However, the permissions of the add-in don't change. The web
application where the code and logic for the add-in runs can change at any time, which is the
nature of web applications.
Updates for add-ins happen as follows:
Line-of-business (LOB) add-in: In this case, where an admin uploaded a manifest, the
admin must upload the new manifest file to support metadata changes. The next time a
user starts the relevant Microsoft 365 productivity application, the add-in updates.
７ Note
To deploy the update, select the LOB add-in and choose the Update Button in the
bottom right corner.
Microsoft Marketplace add-in: When an admin selected an add-in from Microsoft
Marketplace and then the developer updated the manifest in Microsoft Marketplace, the

--- Page 1113 of 2193 ---
admin doesn't have to take any action. The next time a user starts the relevant Microsoft
365 productivity application, the add-in updates.
Related content
Deploy and manage Office add-ins.
Manage add-ins in the admin center.
Build your first Word task pane add-in.
Minors and acquiring add-ins from the store.
Use Centralized Deployment PowerShell cmdlets to manage add-ins.
Troubleshoot: User not seeing add-ins.
Last updated on 03/16/2026

--- Page 1114 of 2193 ---
Manage add-ins in the Microsoft 365
admin center
 Tip
The integrated apps portal is the recommended and most feature-rich way for most
customers to centrally deploy Office add-ins to users and groups within your organization.
Office Add-ins, also known as Integrated Apps, help users in your organization to personalize
documents and streamline access to information on the web. An admin can centrally manage
add-ins that are deployed to users and groups via the Microsoft 365 admin center. For
example, an admin can:
Enable or disable add-ins.
Change which users or groups have access to add-ins.
Remove add-ins that are no longer used.
For more information about installing add-ins from the Microsoft 365 admin center, see
Deploy Office Add-ins in the Microsoft 365 admin center.
Add-in states in the Microsoft 365 admin center
An add-in can be in one of the following states:
ﾉ Expand table
State How the state occurs Effect
Enabled Admin downloads the add-in in the Microsoft 365 Users and groups assigned the
admin center and assigns it to users or groups. add-in have access to the add-in.
Not Admin downloads the add-in in the Microsoft 365 Unassigned users and groups
assigned admin center but the add-in isn't assigned to a user or can't access the add-in.
group.
Removed Admin removes the add-in from the Microsoft 365 No users can access the add-in.
admin center.
Choosing not to assign an add-in versus removing it might make sense if the add-in is only
used during specific times of the year. If no one is using an add-in anymore, consider removing
the add-in from the Microsoft 365 admin center.

--- Page 1115 of 2193 ---
Remove an add-in from the Microsoft 365 admin
center
To remove an add-in that you deployed and no longer need, follow these steps:
1. Sign in to the Microsoft 365 admin center .
2. From the left navigation bar, select … Show all, and then select Settings to expand it.
3. Under Settings, select Integrated apps.
4. In the Integrated apps page, select the deployed add-in that you want to remove.
5. In the add-in properties pane, make sure Overview is selected.
6. In the Remove apps window, select Yes, I'm sure I want to remove the app and
associated data, and then select Remove.
Edit user access to an add-in in the Microsoft 365
admin center
After you deploy an add-in, you can manage user access to the add-in. To manage user access
to an add-in, follow these steps:
1. Sign in to the Microsoft 365 admin center .
2. From the left navigation bar, select … Show all, and then select Settings to expand it.
3. Under Settings, select Integrated apps.
4. In the Integrated apps page, select the deployed add-in that you want to edit.
5. In the add-in properties pane, select Users.
6. Under Assigned users, add or remove users who should have access to the add-in, and
then select Update.
Manage add-in downloads by enabling or
disabling Microsoft Marketplace
） Important

--- Page 1116 of 2193 ---
In the Microsoft 365 admin center, Microsoft Marketplace is sometimes referred to as
Office Store.
As an admin, you can manage access to the Microsoft Marketplace and control whether users
can download add-ins. Managing access to the Microsoft Marketplace is important for the
following reasons:
Ensure users can download Office Add-ins and take advantage of their features.
Ensure users can access only add-ins approved through centralized deployment.
Use this setting if you want to:
Allow users to discover and install approved add-ins themselves.
Block all user-initiated add-in downloads and rely only on centralized deployment.
Enable or disable access to the Microsoft Marketplace for all
apps
Support for enabling or disabling access to the Microsoft Marketplace starts in the following
versions:
Office on Windows: 16.0.9001.
Office on Mac: 16.10.18011401.
Office on iOS: 2.9.18010804.
Office for the web.
To enable or disable access to the Microsoft Marketplace and downloading of add-ins, follow
these steps:
1. Sign in to the Microsoft 365 admin center .
2. From the left navigation bar, select … Show all, and then select Settings to expand it.
3. Under Settings, select Org settings .
4. In the Org settings page, make sure Services is selected, and then select User owned
apps and services.
5. In the User owned apps and services pane:
Select Let users access the Office Store to give users access to the Microsoft
Marketplace and allow users to download. This setting is the default setting.

--- Page 1117 of 2193 ---
Clear Let users access the Office Store to block users from accessing the Microsoft
Marketplace and prevent users from downloading add-ins.

6. Select Save after you choose the desired setting. If the setting is already in the desired
state, select the X in the top-right corner to cancel.
The Let users access the Office Store setting controls all users' ability to acquire the
following add-ins from Microsoft Marketplace:
Add-ins for non-subscription Word, Excel, and PowerPoint on Windows and Mac
Add-ins for subscription Microsoft 365
When you disable access to the Microsoft Marketplace, a user who tries to access it sees
the following message:
Office store not available. Unfortunately, your organization has disabled access to the
Office Store. Please contact your administrator to get access to the store.
Important limitations and exceptions
Access to the Microsoft Marketplace doesn't apply to Microsoft Outlook add-ins. To
manage Microsoft Outlook add-ins, see Specify the administrators and users who can
install and manage add-ins for Outlook in Exchange Online.
Even if users can download add-ins from Microsoft Marketplace, they can't launch or use
the add-in in the client.
To prevent a user from signing into the Microsoft Marketplace by using a personal
Microsoft account, restrict sign in to use only an organizational account. For more
information, see Identity, authentication, and authorization in Office 2016.
If you prevent users from accessing Microsoft Marketplace, they also can't Sideload Office
Add-ins for testing from a network share.
User owned apps and services settings for educational tenants

--- Page 1118 of 2193 ---
Additional access options are available for educational tenants in the User owned apps and
services pane. You can control access based on whether a user is:
A faculty, staff, and other non-student users.
An adult student.
A non-adult student.

The user's license information defines the type of user.
A faculty, staff, and other non-student users: A user who doesn't have an educational
license.
An adult or non-adult student: A user who has an educational license. The Age Group
property checks whether the student is an adult.
For more information, see the following articles:
Assign or unassign licenses for users in the Microsoft 365 admin center.
Add or update a user's profile information and settings in the Microsoft Entra admin
center.
End-user experience with add-ins in Office
applications
After you deploy an add-in, users interact with the add-in directly in their Office apps. An add-
in appears on all platforms that the add-in supports. For more information, see Start using your

--- Page 1119 of 2193 ---
Office Add-in .
Some add-ins support commands that appear in the ribbon. For example, the Citations add-in
shows the command Search Citation in the ribbon:

If an add-in doesn't support commands that appear in the ribbon, the user can view the add-in
via Manage your apps. They can also view all add-ins that are deployed in the organization in
Manage your apps.
View add-ins in Manage your apps
To view add-ins in Manage your apps, select the tab based on which application you want to
view add-ins for:
Word, Excel, or PowerPoint.
Outlook.
Word, Excel, or PowerPoint
View add-ins in Word, Excel, or PowerPoint
To view add-ins in Manage your apps in Word, Excel, or PowerPoint, follow these steps:
1. On the Home ribbon of the app, select Add-ins.
2. In the pane that opens, select + More Add-ins.
3. At the bottom of the left-hand navigation pane of the Apps page, select Manage
your apps to see a list of all deployed apps, agents, and add-ins.
4. To see the details of an add-in, select it from the list.
Related content

--- Page 1120 of 2193 ---
Minors and acquiring add-ins from the Microsoft Store.
Last updated on 03/16/2026

--- Page 1121 of 2193 ---
Centralized deployment FAQ
Centralized deployment is a way for a Microsoft 365 admin to deploy Office Add-ins (Word, Excel,
PowerPoint, and Outlook) to users and groups within an organization, provided the organization
meets all requirements for using centralized deployment as outlined in this article. However, note
that the integrated apps portal is the recommended and most feature-rich way for most
customers to centrally deploy Office add-ins to users and groups within your organization. But
add-ins can also be centrally deployed through the Add-in page of the Microsoft 365 admin
center.
How do I know if my organization is set up for
centralized deployment?
Centralized deployment of add-ins requires that users are using apps in Microsoft 365 for
enterprise (and are signed into Microsoft 365 using their organizational log-in credentials) and
have Exchange Online mailboxes. Your subscription directory must either be in, or federated to,
Microsoft Entra ID.
Centralized deployment is only supported for online mailboxes. It doesn't support deployment to
on-premises Exchange mailboxes.
You can use the Centralized Deployment Compatibility Checker to determine if your subscription
is eligible.
How do you target add-in user assignments
with centralized deployment?
Centralized deployment supports assignments to individual users, groups, and everyone in the
tenant. Centralized deployment can be used for users in top-level groups (groups without parent
groups), but not for users in nested groups (groups that have parent groups). Centralized
deployment also supports most Microsoft Entra groups, including Microsoft 365 Groups,
distribution lists, dynamic groups, and security groups.
It's better to use groups assignments instead of individual user assignment for easier
management.

--- Page 1122 of 2193 ---
For more details, see User and Group assignments.
How long does it take for add-ins to show up
for all users?
It can take up to 24 hours for a new add-in deployment to show up for all users. It can take up to
72 hours for add-in updates, changes from turn on or turn off to reflect for users.
How long does it take for add-ins to get
removed for all users?
It can take up to 24 hours for add-in removal to reflect for all users.
As an administrator, how do I manage the user
access to add-ins for my organization?
For easy deployment of add-ins to users, groups, or to your entire organization, we recommend
administrators use centralized deployment whenever deployment through the integrated apps
portal is not suitable.
For more information about managing user access, see:
Manage add-in downloads by turning on/off Microsoft Marketplace across all apps (except
Outlook)
Specify the administrators and users who can install and manage add-ins for Outlook
Will centralized deployment provide admins
the flexibility to choose the deployment
method for Outlook add-ins?
Yes. Centralized deployment provides admins the flexibility to choose one of three deployment
methods for Outlook add-ins during add-in deployment:
Fixed The add-in will be automatically deployed to the assigned users and they won't be able to
remove it from their ribbon.

--- Page 1123 of 2193 ---
Available Users can install the add-in in Outlook by choosing Home > Get More add-ins >
Admin-managed.
Optional The add-in is deployed automatically to the assigned users, but they can choose to
remove it.
７ Note
Integrated Apps don't have this option available; however, admins can still use the legacy
Add-in page to perform this under Settings > Integrated Apps, and then selecting the Add-
in link.

Can admins update Line-of-Business (LOB)
add-ins?
Yes. Admins can upload a new manifest file to support metadata changes for admin-deployed
LOB add-ins. The add-in updates the next time the Microsoft 365 app starts. The web application
can change at any time.
For more information, see line-of-business add-in.
Can admins turn off add-ins?
Yes. Admins can turn on or off the add-ins they deploy for all users from the Microsoft admin
center.
For more information, see Add-in states.
Can admins delete or remove add-ins?
Yes. Admins can delete add-ins they deployed for all users from the Microsoft admin center.
For more information, see Delete an add-in.

--- Page 1124 of 2193 ---
Can admins deploy paid add-ins from
Microsoft Marketplace using centralized
deployment?
Yes.
Which admin role do I need to manage add-ins
for my organization?
Global Admin is the recommended role with complete access to the add-in management
lifecycle. If you're the person who purchased your Microsoft 365 Business subscription, you're the
Global admin.
Your subscription comes with a set of admin roles that you can assign to other users in your
organization. Each admin role maps to common business functions and gives people in your
organization permissions to perform specific tasks in the Microsoft 365 admin center.
For more information, see Assign admin roles.
How many add-ins can I deploy?
A total of 200 Excel, Outlook, PowerPoint, and Word add-ins can be deployed by admins within
their tenant.
Why do add-in deployment times for Word,
Excel, and PowerPoint differ compared to
Outlook add-ins?
There are architectural differences between add-in deployments for Word, Excel, and PowerPoint
vs Outlook.

--- Page 1125 of 2193 ---
Deploy Office Add-ins in Government
Community Cloud High (GCC
High) environments
Deploy Office Add-ins in Government Community Cloud High (GCC High) by using centralized
deployment in the Microsoft 365 admin center. This article explains two deployment options so
you can deploy add-ins when Marketplace access isn't available.
Deploy an Office Add-in using the manifest XML URL
First try to deploy the add-in using the manifest XML URL. If the steps in this section fail, follow
the steps in the next section Deploy an Office Add-in using the manifest XML file.
To deploy an Office Add-in using the manifest XML URL, follow these steps:
1. In your browser, go to the Microsoft Marketplace .
2. Search for and then select the tile of the add-in you want to deploy. Make sure to select the
tile and not the Get it now button. The details page opens for the add-in.
3. In the URL for the details page, find and copy the AssetID value. The AssetID value is the
value at the end of the URL:
https://marketplace.microsoft.com/<locale>/product/<AssetID>
For example, in the URL:
https://marketplace.microsoft.com/en-us/product/WA1234567989
The AssetID value is:
WA1234567989
4. Paste the AssetID value to the following URL:
https://store.office.com/app/download?assetid=<AssetID>
For example, using the example AssetID value of WA1234567989 from the previous step, the
URL is:

--- Page 1126 of 2193 ---
https://store.office.com/app/download?assetid=WA1234567989
If you go to this URL, it displays the manifest XML for the add-in.
5. In a new browser window or tab, sign in to the Microsoft 365 admin center .
6. From the left navigation bar, select … Show all, and then select Settings to expand it.
7. Under Settings, select Integrated apps .
8. In the Integrated apps page, make sure the Deployed apps tab is selected, and then select
Upload custom apps.
9. In the Upload Apps to deploy page of the Deploy New App pane:
a. In the App type dropdown menu, select Office Add-in.
b. Under Choose how to upload app, select Provide link to manifest file, copy and paste
the manifest XML URL previously determined into the text box, and then select Validate.
10. Once the manifest XML file is validated, the message Manifest file validated appears. Select
Next.
11. In the Add users page of the Deploy New App pane, under Assign users select the users
you want to have access to the add-in, and then select Next.
12. In the Accept permissions requests page of the Deploy New App pane, review the
permissions that the add-in is requesting. If you accept the permissions, select Next.
13. In the Review and finish deployment page of the Deploy New App pane, review the
deployment settings, and then select Finish Deployment.
14. When the deployment completes, the message Deployment completed appears. Select
Done.
Deploy an Office Add-in using the manifest XML file
If the deployment of the add-in using the manifest XML URL fails, use the steps in this section
instead.
To deploy an Office Add-in using the manifest XML file, follow these steps:
1. In your browser, go to the Microsoft Marketplace .

--- Page 1127 of 2193 ---
2. Search for and then select the tile of the add-in you want to deploy. Make sure to select the
tile and not the Get it now button. The details page opens for the add-in.
3. In the URL for the details page, find and copy the AssetID value. The AssetID value is the
value at the end of the URL:
https://marketplace.microsoft.com/<locale>/product/<AssetID>
For example, in the URL:
https://marketplace.microsoft.com/en-us/product/WA1234567989
The AssetID value is:
WA1234567989
4. Paste the AssetID value to the following URL:
https://store.office.com/app/download?assetid=<AssetID>
For example, using the example AssetID value of WA1234567989 from the previous step, the
URL is:
https://store.office.com/app/download?assetid=WA1234567989
5. In a new browser window or tab, go to the URL determined in the previous step. The page
at this URL displays the manifest XML for the add-in.
6. Right-click on the page, select Save As or Save Page As (depending on your browser), and
then save the manifest XML file to a known location on your device. Make sure the file is
saved as an .xml file with the .xml extension.
7. In a new browser window or tab, sign in to the Microsoft 365 admin center .
8. From the left navigation bar, select … Show all, and then select Settings to expand it.
9. Under Settings, select Integrated apps .
10. In the Integrated apps page, select Upload custom apps.
11. In the Upload Apps to deploy page of the Deploy New App pane:
a. In the App type dropdown menu, select Office Add-in.

--- Page 1128 of 2193 ---
b. Under Choose how to upload app, select Upload manifest file (.xml) from device and
then select Choose File.
c. Browse to the location where you saved the manifest XML file, select the file, and then
select Open.
12. Once the manifest XML file is validated, the message Manifest file validated appears. Select
Next.
13. In the Add users page of the Deploy New App pane, under Assign users select the users
you want to have access to the add-in, and then select Next.
14. In the Accept permissions requests page of the Deploy New App pane, review the
permissions that the add-in is requesting. If you accept the permissions, select Next.
15. In the Review and finish deployment page of the Deploy New App pane, review the
deployment settings, and then select Finish Deployment.
16. When the deployment completes, the message Deployment completed appears. Select
Done.
） Important
If there's an error concerning Admin Consent, the add-in isn't GCC High compatible. The
Developer of the add-in should be contacted to allow their add-in to be GCC High
compliant.
Last updated on 06/05/2026

--- Page 1129 of 2193 ---
Manage Industry news
Article • 02/17/2023
７ Note
Bing news & Industry updates are available only for en-US at this time.
To provide your users with up-to-date news headlines about your industry and info from
your organization, use the News service to enable a customized news feed for your
organization. You can also enable a daily Industry Updates email, and manage settings
for the Bing homepage and Microsoft Edge new tab page.
What your users will see
You have the option to send your users a daily Industry Updates email with headlines
and links to full articles. Users can customize their email updates by following additional
topics, choosing when the update is delivered, excluding articles behind paywalls, and
selecting the number of articles they want to see.
Signed-in users who go to the Bing homepage see your industry's news feed under the
personalized info for your organization.

--- Page 1130 of 2193 ---
They can also see company, industry, and internal news or personalized work
information on their Microsoft Edge new tab page.
News settings
As an admin, you control the News feed settings for your organization, including the
selected industry and the Bing homepage, the Microsoft Edge new tab page (Starting
with the release of Edge 87), and the email experiences.
1. In the Microsoft 365 admin center, go to Settings > Org settings > Services >
News .

--- Page 1131 of 2193 ---
2. In the News panel, click the General tab.
3. In the Industry list, select your organization's industries. This determines the
general news that appears in your organization news feed. Microsoft may pre-
select an industry using information from your account. You can remove or add
industries by updating the Industry list.
4. In the Topics field, enter topics that you want see news articles about. Your users
can't change these topics.
5. You can block articles containing keywords in the Exclude content field. For
example, to avoid articles containing the keyword “bake” from showing up in the
news feed, add the keyword “bake” in the Exclude content field. Avoid including
general terms (the, it, and, etc.); they can block relevant content from appearing in
your enterprise news feeds.
6. Select Save. It may take up to 24 hours for changes to appear.
Industry updates in email
You can send a daily email update with relevant industry news to your users' inboxes. To
set daily email updates for users:
1. In the Microsoft 365 admin center, go to Settings > Org settings > Services >
News .
2. In the News panel, click the Industry Updates tab.
3. Select Send daily email updates to send an email to your users.
4. To give users the ability to customize the news they get in their email updates,
select Allow users to customize their own topics.
Bing homepage
You can customize the Bing homepage to include news about your industry.
Toggle news for Business or Enterprise plans
1. In the Microsoft 365 admin center, go to Settings > Org settings > Services >
News .

--- Page 1132 of 2193 ---
2. In the News panel, click the Bing homepage tab, and select Include on Bing
homepage.
The industry news appears under the personalized info from your organization on
Bing.com.
Toggle news types for Education plans
1. In the Microsoft 365 admin center, go to Settings > Org settings > Services >
News .
2. In the News panel, click the Bing homepage tab, you have the option to select
whether trending news or industry news show for your users.
Microsoft Edge new tab page
When your users sign in to Microsoft Edge (release 87 or higher) with a valid work or
school account, they can see news tailored to your organization.
1. In the Microsoft 365 admin center, go to Settings > Org settings > Services >
News .
2. In the News panel, click Microsoft Edge new tab page.
3. Select Allow Microsoft 365 content on the new tab page. When enabled, users
can customize their new tab to show information from Microsoft 365, including
recommended and recent files, along with frequently used SharePoint sites and
other information.

--- Page 1133 of 2193 ---
4. Select Show company information and industry news on the new tab page. News
articles about your organization and industry appear for users that choose to see
articles on their new tab.
Related content
Microsoft Search
Manage your data and service
Feedback
Was this page helpful?  Yes  No
Provide product feedback

--- Page 1134 of 2193 ---
Manage Office Scripts settings
10/17/2025
Office Scripts allows users to automate tasks by recording, editing, and running scripts in Excel.
Office Scripts works with Power Automate, and users run scripts on workbooks by using the
Excel Online (Business) connector. Microsoft 365 admins can manage Office Scripts settings
from the Microsoft 365 admin center.
） Important
We’re moving the management of Office Scripts admin controls from the Microsoft 365
admin center to the Microsoft 365 Cloud Policy service. For more information, see Office
Scripts admin controls transition.
７ Note
To manage Office Scripts settings, you must be at least an Office Apps admin. For more
information, see About admin roles.
Manage availability of Office Scripts and sharing of
scripts
1. In the Microsoft 365 admin center, go to the Settings > Org settings > Services tab.
2. Select Office Scripts.
3. Office Scripts is turned on by default, and everyone in your organization can access and
use the feature and share scripts. To turn off Office Scripts for your organization, clear the
Let users automate their tasks in Excel checkbox.
4. If you previously turned off Office Scripts for your organization and you want to turn it
back on, select Let users automate their tasks in Excel, and then specify who can access
and use the feature:
To allow all users in your organization to access and use Office Scripts, leave
Everyone (the default) selected.
To allow only members of a specific group to access and use Office Scripts, select
Specific group, and then enter the name or email alias of the group to add it to the

--- Page 1135 of 2193 ---
allowlist. You may add only one group to the allowlist, and it must be one of the
following types:
Microsoft 365 group
Distribution group
Security group
Mail-enabled security group
To learn more about the different types of groups, see Compare groups.
5. To allow users with access to Office Scripts to share their scripts with others in your
organization, select Let users with access to Office Scripts share their scripts with others
in the organization. Sharing scripts outside of an organization isn't allowed.
７ Note
If you later turn off script sharing for your organization, users will still be able to run
previously-shared scripts.
6. Specify which users with access to Office Scripts can share their scripts:
To allow all users with access to Office Scripts to share their scripts, leave Everyone
(the default) selected.
To allow only members of a specific group with access to Office Scripts to share their
scripts, select Specific group, and then enter the name or email alias of the group to
add it to the allowlist. You may add only one group to the allowlist, and it must be
one of the following types:
Microsoft 365 group
Distribution group
Security group
Mail-enabled security group
To learn more about the different types of groups, see Compare groups.
7. To allow users to run their Office Scripts inside Power Automate flows, select Let users
with access to Office Scripts run their scripts with Power Automate. This allows users to
add flow steps with the Excel Online (Business) connector Run script option.
To allow all users with access to Office Scripts to use their scripts in flows, leave
Everyone (the default) selected.
To allow only members of a specific group with access to Office Scripts to use their
scripts in flows, select Specific group, and then enter the name or email alias of the

--- Page 1136 of 2193 ---
group to add it to the allowlist. You may add only one group to the allowlist, and it
must be one of the following types:
Microsoft 365 group
Distribution group
Security group
Mail-enabled security group
To learn more about the different types of groups, see Compare groups.
To learn more about using Office Scripts with Power Automate, see Run Office
Scripts with Power Automate.
8. Select Save.
It can take up to 48 hours for changes to Office Scripts settings to take effect.
Manage the availability of Office Scripts in Excel
desktop by using Group Policy
Group Policy has a setting to control whether Office Scripts (including the relevant commands
on the Automate tab) are available for use.
If you enable this policy setting, Office Scripts won't be available for use in the installed Excel
app on a desktop. You'll find Office Scripts settings under User Configuration\Administrative
Templates\Microsoft Excel 2016\Miscellaneous in the Group Policy Management Console.
After applying this policy setting, users will still see the Automate tab, but the Office Scripts
and Automate options will be greyed out. They can select the Record Actions button, but if
they do, they'll see the following message: "You don't have access to Office Scripts. Your
organization's admin may have turned off this feature, or you don't meet the requirements."
To learn more, see Use Group Policy to configure update settings for Microsoft 365 Apps.
Office Scripts admin controls transition
The management of Office Scripts admin controls is moving from the Microsoft 365 admin
center to the Microsoft 365 Cloud Policy service. After October 27, 2025, admins will no longer
be able to make changes to their old settings in the Microsoft 365 admin center. Any existing
settings need to be moved to the Cloud Policy service by this date to ensure that they are
honored. If you don't configure the settings by then, then all three will be set to the default
value of enabled.

--- Page 1137 of 2193 ---
The three settings moving to the Cloud Policy service are:
Let users automate their tasks in Excel
Let users with access to Office Scripts share their scripts with others in the organization
Let users with access to Office Scripts run their scripts with Power Automate
You only need to take action if you've changed these settings from their default value of
enabled. If you haven't changed the settings, then no action is required. If you've customized
any of the settings, then you need to configure their equivalent in the Microsoft 365 Cloud
Policy service before October 20, 2025. For an overview of how to manage policies using the
Cloud Policy service, see Overview of Cloud Policy service for Microsoft 365.
Next steps
Because Office Scripts works with Power Automate, we recommend that you review your
existing Microsoft Purview Data Loss Prevention (DLP) policies to ensure your organization's
data remains protected while users use Office Scripts. For more information, see Set a policy to
help prevent data loss.
Related content
Office Scripts technical documentation (link page)
Introduction to Office Scripts in Excel (article)
Sharing Office Scripts in Excel (article)
Record, edit, and create Office Scripts in Excel (tutorial)

--- Page 1138 of 2193 ---
Find your Microsoft 365 subscriptions
partner or reseller
07/08/2025
Check out all of our small business content on Small business help & learning .
As an admin, you can work with a partner to buy, activate, and renew Microsoft 365
subscriptions through one of our Volume Licensing programs.
Before you begin
You must be a Global Administrator to do the tasks described in this article. For more
information, see About admin roles in the Microsoft 365 admin center.
Ｕ Caution
Global Administrators have almost unlimited access to your organization's settings and
most of its data. To help keep your organization secure, we recommend that you limit the
number of Global Administrators as much as possible.
Find a new partner or reseller
If you're ready to buy or renew Microsoft 365 through Open Volume Licensing, or you simply
want more information about working with a partner, choose one of the following options.
Search for a Microsoft-certified service partner
Call Microsoft Volume Licensing
Find contact information for a partner you worked
with previously
In some cases, you can find information in the Microsoft 365 admin center for partners you
worked with previously. Keep in mind that this information might be out of date. We
recommend that you contact the person or department responsible for purchasing in your
organization to find out which partner you should work with.

--- Page 1139 of 2193 ---
View partner info in the Microsoft 365 admin
center
1. In the Microsoft 365 admin center , go to the Settings > Partner relationships page.
2. If you have a partner, the partner's name and relationship to your organization is listed
here. To view partner contact information, like the phone number and email address,
select the partner name.
Related content
Help for partners

--- Page 1140 of 2193 ---
Manage Microsoft feedback for
your organization
As the admin of a Microsoft 365 organization, there are several policies to help you manage the
feedback collection and the customer engagement experience of your users when using
Microsoft 365 applications and Microsoft 365 Copilot. All policies described in this article govern
feedback for both Microsoft 365 applications and Microsoft 365 Copilot. You can create and use
existing Microsoft Entra groups in your organization for each of these policies. With these
policies, you can control how different departments in your organization can send feedback to
Microsoft.
Microsoft reviews all feedback submitted by customers. Microsoft uses this feedback to improve
the product experiences for users, including by improving the quality of AI-generated responses
and troubleshooting product issues. Keeping the feedback experiences enabled allows you to see
what your users are saying about the Microsoft products they're using. The feedback we collect
from your users is available in the Microsoft 365 admin center .
７ Note
Microsoft acts as a data processor for your tenant's feedback. As the tenant administrator,
you can manage your tenant's feedback in the Microsoft 365 admin center. For more
information, see How can I see my user's feedback?
To learn more about the types of feedback and how Microsoft uses user feedback, see Learn
about Microsoft feedback for your organization.
The following table represents which apps and services are currently connected to the feedback
policies shown in the Feedback policies table. For examples of in-product feedback and surveys,
see Feedback types.
ﾉ Expand table
Apps & Services In-product feedback In- Metadata Customer
product collection engagement
surveys
Access Yes Yes Yes Yes

--- Page 1141 of 2193 ---
Apps & Services In-product feedback In- Metadata Customer
product collection engagement
surveys
Clipchamp Yes Yes Yes No
Excel Yes Yes Yes Yes
Forms Yes Yes Yes Yes
Intune Company Yes Yes Yes Yes
Portal (Android)
Microsoft 365 Yes Yes Yes Yes
Copilot
Microsoft Stream Yes Yes Yes Yes
(Android, iOS)
Microsoft Yes Yes Yes Yes
Whiteboard
Microsoft365.com Yes Yes Yes Yes
OneNote Yes Yes Yes Yes
OneDrive Some settings are managed by other
controls. For more information, see
Prevent users from contacting
Microsoft directly.
Outlook Yes Yes Yes Yes
PowerPoint Yes Yes Yes Yes
Project Yes Yes Yes Yes
Publisher Yes Yes Yes Yes
SharePoint Yes Yes Yes Yes
Teams Some settings are managed by other Yes
controls. For more information, see
Manage feedback policies in
Microsoft Teams.
Teams Rooms Yes Yes Yes No
To Do Yes Yes Yes Yes
Word Yes Yes Yes Yes

--- Page 1142 of 2193 ---
Apps & Services In-product feedback In- Metadata Customer
product collection engagement
surveys
Visio Yes Yes Yes Yes
Viva Connections Yes No Yes Yes
Viva Engage Yes Yes Yes Yes
Viva Glint Yes Yes Yes Yes
Viva Goals Yes Yes Yes Yes
Viva Insights Yes Yes Yes Yes
Viva Pulse Yes Yes Yes Yes
Feedback policies
） Important
If you're an admin in a United States government environment, see the Feedback policies in
United States government environments section later in this article.
When the following policies are set to Not Configured, it has the same effect as if you set the
policies to Enabled.
ﾉ Expand table
Policy name Control summary
Allow users to access feedback Manage user access to the feedback portal where users can follow up
portal on their feedback and participate in community feedback.
Allow users to submit feedback to Controls feedback entry points across applications.
Microsoft
Allow users to receive and Controls whether surveys appear within product.
respond to in-product surveys
from Microsoft
Allow users to include Allows users to choose relevant files, screen recordings, and
screenshots and attachments screenshots to help Microsoft better understand and troubleshoot their
when they submit feedback to feedback.
Microsoft

--- Page 1143 of 2193 ---
Policy name Control summary
Allow Microsoft to follow up on Determines if user can share contact info with feedback/survey for
feedback submitted by users follow-up by Microsoft. Also allows users to get notified of feedback
status changes. Users can manage communications settings in the
feedback portal.
Allow users to include log files Allows users to include Microsoft generated files such as additional log
and content samples when files and content samples when relevant to feedback they're submitting.
feedback is submitted to Examples may include Microsoft 365 Copilot prompt and response
Microsoft interactions.
７ Note
The Allow users to access the feedback portal policy is only available in Cloud Policy service
for Microsoft 365. This policy isn't available in Group Policy and doesn't have a
corresponding registry key available to set the policy.
Configure policies
To configure these policy settings, you can use Cloud Policy service for Microsoft 365. For more
information, see Overview of Cloud Policy service for Microsoft 365. You can search for
"feedback" or "survey" within Cloud Policy UI to find the policy settings to configure them.
These policy settings are also available if you use Group Policy. To use these policy settings,
download the most current version of the Administrative Template files (ADMX/ADML) . You can
find these policy settings under User Configuration\Policies\Administrative Templates\Microsoft
Office 2016\Privacy\Trust Center.
７ Note
After you apply policies, it can take a few hours for the client applications to update.
Feedback policies in United States government
environments
The following information only applies to United States government customers using Microsoft
365 (or Office 365) Government Community Cloud (GCC), GCC High, or DoD offerings.

--- Page 1144 of 2193 ---
Not all products currently support feedback collection in this environment, but we're
working to implement that support. To prepare for feedback collection, we recommend you
review and configure the policy settings in the way that's appropriate for your organization.
The behavior of the Allow users to submit feedback to Microsoft policy differs from
commercial tenants. When the policy is Not configured (the default), users can submit
restricted feedback only. Setting the policy to Enabled allows users to submit verbatim
feedback, while setting it to Disabled prevents users from submitting feedback entirely.
Restricted feedback: Users can't provide written comments but can only provide
predefined feedback such as giving a thumbs up/down rating or selecting an issue type
from a list of likely issues.
Verbatim feedback: Users can submit more detailed feedback that includes optional
written comments.
No diagnostic logs, prompts, responses, screenshots, attachments, or user files are collected
in any configuration in United States government environments.
The Feedback portal and in-product surveys aren't available in this environment, so setting
these policies don't have any effect at this time.
While the following policies are available to change, changes will have no effect and those
policies will always be treated as Disabled:
Allow users to include screenshots and attachments when they submit feedback to
Microsoft.
Allow Microsoft to follow up on feedback submitted by users.
Allow users to include log files and relevant content samples when feedback is submitted
to Microsoft.
Last updated on 05/21/2026

--- Page 1145 of 2193 ---
Modern change management for Microsoft
365 - Overview
Applies to: Microsoft 365 admin center
Organizations now operate in an environment of continuous change. Managing continuous
service change using traditional management models can be a challenge for IT admins trying to
keep pace.
Microsoft is building modern change management solutions, so that IT admins can enable their
organizations to proactively plan for change. By using AI enabled tools, admins can assess
impact, prioritize work, and make informed decisions. Modern change management capabilities
help IT admins manage risk, meet compliance requirements, and adopt Microsoft 365 features
with confidence.
This model gives IT admins configurable release options to control rollout timing, an enhanced
Message center for clearer and more actionable communications, and two MCP (Model Context
Protocol) Servers—Microsoft Release Communications MCP Server and Microsoft MCP for
Enterprise—for AI-assisted change planning.
Customize your organization's release experience for
Microsoft 365
From the Microsoft admin center, you can choose between various release options for Microsoft
365 updates, either during general availability or before general availability.
General availability
Microsoft thoroughly tests and validates all features and services before release.
Standard release delivers fully supported features to your organization at general availability
(GA). Standard is the default release option, and Microsoft recommends it for most organizations.
If you need to delay features for some users, you can choose standard release for your
organization and assign specific users to deferred release.
Deferred release delays deferred-capable GA features for up to 30 days, giving admins additional
preparation time. After 30 days, the features appear to your deferred release users. If your
organization has additional validation requirements, you can assign some or all users to deferred

--- Page 1146 of 2193 ---
release. You can identify deferred-capable features in the Message center. To test and validate
changes before they reach your deferred release users, add select users to standard release so
they receive deferred-capable feature updates earlier.
For more information about modern release options and how to configure them, see Configure
Standard and Deferred release options for Microsoft 365.
７ Note
Currently, the modern release options of standard and deferred release channels aren't
available for GCC, GCC High, and DoD cloud environments. Check this article for updates
regarding future support.
Before general availability
As an IT admin, you can opt in to use features before general availability by assigning users to
specific release audiences.
The Microsoft Frontier program gives organizations early access to innovative and emerging AI
capabilities in Microsoft 365 before those features reach general availability. By opting in to
Frontier program, IT administrators can evaluate new Copilot agents and AI-powered
experiences, determine readiness for broader deployment across their tenant, and provide
feedback about Frontier feature capabilities to Microsoft.
The Frontier program supports early experimentation, but the features aren't fully supported,
might change, and might not reach GA. They're intended for evaluation and readiness, not
production use.
For more information on the Frontier program, see Get started with the Microsoft Frontier
program.
Updated Message center interface
The updated Message center experience helps you deliver timely, relevant, and actionable
change communications. It provides:
Launch-day announcements with brief summaries and links to supporting resources.
A consistent post format that includes the change description, rollout timeline, affected
users and platforms, recommended actions, and compliance considerations.

--- Page 1147 of 2193 ---
For more information, see What's new in Message center and Message center in the Microsoft
365 admin center.
Microsoft Release Communications MCP Server
AI-enabled organizations use intelligent tooling to accelerate their internal processes. By
integrating the Microsoft Release Communications (MRC) MCP Server with your AI tools, you can
connect to the latest release information for updates on Microsoft 365 Roadmap and Azure
Roadmap to create the infrastructure for AI-assisted reasoning over upcoming changes, priorities,
and business impact.
For information on how to start using MRC MCP server, see Get started with Release
Communications MCP Server.
Microsoft MCP Server for Enterprise
Shift from passively reviewing service updates to actively reasoning over change data. With
Microsoft MCP Server for Enterprise, you can give AI agents conversational, read-only access to
your organization's Message center and Service Health Dashboard data. The server queries
Microsoft Graph using your delegated permissions, so Microsoft Entra security, access controls,
and compliance requirements stay in place.
Use Microsoft MCP Server for Enterprise to:
Summarize tenant-relevant Message center posts through natural language
Identify changes that affect your organization and determine actions to take
Prioritize work by reasoning over change data without leaving your AI workflow
For more information, see Overview of Microsoft MCP Server for Enterprise - Microsoft Graph.
Available workloads for modern change management
This is the first step in our modernization change management journey. We're starting the
modern change management experience with Microsoft 365 Copilot. Not all Microsoft 365
workloads are available in this new model. Existing and traditional change management tools and
methodologies can still be used for these experiences.
ﾉ Expand table

--- Page 1148 of 2193 ---
Modern change management Traditional change management
- Modern change management - Overview - Set up the Standard or Targeted release options
- Configure modern release options - Microsoft 365 change guide - Microsoft 365 Apps
- Modern release options FAQ - Stay on top of changes
- Release Communications MCP server
- What's new in Message Center
Communication channels for Microsoft 365 updates
The following table shows various communication channels we have that you can use to help
manage change:
ﾉ Expand table
Communication Description Documentation
channel
Microsoft 365 - Understand what features are coming, when they're Microsoft 365 Roadmap
Roadmap expected to release, and which environments they apply
to.
- Provides early planning signals that complement
Message center announcements and supports proactive
change management across Microsoft 365.
Message center - Learn about official service announcements and feature Message center in the
changes. Microsoft 365 admin
- Read these messages in the Microsoft 365 admin center
center, the admin mobile app, or receive a weekly digest
in email.
- Share these messages with others in your organization
when you see a message someone else should act on.
Related articles
Get started with the Microsoft Release Communications MCP Server
Overview of Microsoft MCP Server for Enterprise - Microsoft Graph
Configure modern release options for Microsoft 365
Release options FAQ
Get started with Microsoft Frontier program
What's new in Message center

--- Page 1149 of 2193 ---
Last updated on 04/30/2026

--- Page 1150 of 2193 ---
Configure new Standard and Deferred
release options for Microsoft 365
Applies to: Microsoft 365 Copilot, Microsoft 365 admin center
Microsoft 365 delivers updates continuously, enabling organizations to adopt new capabilities
without large, infrequent upgrades. To help IT admins manage this pace of change, Microsoft 365
offers a new three-tier, audience-based release model-Frontier, Standard, and Deferred-so
organizations can balance early access with readiness and control.
） Important
The modern release options of standard and deferred initially applies to Microsoft 365
Copilot updates that have been identified as both a major change and deferred capable in
the Message center. We'll expand this approach across all Microsoft 365 services over time.
For release information for Microsoft 365 apps, see Overview of update channels for
Microsoft 365 Apps.
With Standard release, your organization receives new features as soon as they're generally
available (GA). Standard release is the default option and should be the primary release channel
for most customers. Microsoft thoroughly tests and validates all features and services before we
release them. Your organization is configured as standard release by default.
If you have additional validation requirements, your organization might want to consider
Deferred release for all or some users. Features available in deferred release are major Microsoft
365 releases and are considered "deferred-capable," meaning admins will have 30 days to
prepare for the release after broad release in standard begins. After 30 days, generally available
Microsoft 365 features appear to your users. You can see which features are deferred-capable in
the Message center.
For pre-release availability, the Microsoft Frontier program provides early access to innovative
and emerging AI capabilities in Microsoft 365 before those features reach general availability. For
more information about getting started with the Frontier program, see Get started with the
Microsoft Frontier program.
You can use these new release options so you can align feature delivery with your organization's
readiness, governance requirements, and overall change management strategy.

--- Page 1151 of 2193 ---
７ Note
Currently, the modern release options of standard and deferred release channels aren't
available for GCC, GCC High, and DoD cloud environments. Check this article for updates
regarding future support.
How release validation works
Microsoft feature teams validate each new release first, followed by the Microsoft 365 feature
team, and then that feature rolls out to all of Microsoft. At each release phase, Microsoft collects
feedback and further validates quality by monitoring key usage metrics before it goes to the
public. This series of progressive validations helps make sure the worldwide rollout to general
availability (standard release) is as robust as possible.
As shown in the following figure, you can now use a modern, audience-based release model that
includes the Frontier program, Standard release, and Deferred release as release options.

For a comparison of release options, see the following table:
ﾉ Expand table

--- Page 1152 of 2193 ---
Release Primary purpose Feature Key considerations for IT admins
audience readiness
Frontier Early Pre-GA, not Frontier features are pre-release, subject to change,
program experimentation and fully supported and not governed by GA SLAs. IT admins can
feedback control which users have access to which Frontier
features and agents.
Standard Default GA rollout Fully supported Features are supported, communicated through
release GA features Message Center and release notes, and expected to
(default) remain available under standard lifecycle policies.
Recommended for most organizations.
Deferred Delayed GA for Fully supported Same functionality as standard release, with timing
release additional GA features delayed for 30 days after standard GA for major
preparation (delayed) features to organizations with additional validation
requirements.
For significant updates, Microsoft first notifies you through the Microsoft 365 Roadmap . Before
rollout, Microsoft notifies you through the Microsoft 365 Message center .
７ Note
If your organization is using targeted release for other Microsoft 365 services, you can
continue to do so as we drive towards our converged release strategy. We recommend
configuring release preferences for frontier, standard, and deferred audiences to align with
the new release model as Microsoft begins delivering an increasing number of major
features through it over time. Use the Microsoft Message Center to keep up with new
products and services using this audience-based release model.
For more information about targeted release for other Microsoft 365 services, see Configure
standard and targeted release.
Prerequisites
You must have one of the following roles in Microsoft 365 admin center to configure standard
and deferred release options:
Office Apps Admin
Security Admin
AI Admin
For more information, see About administrator roles in the Microsoft 365 admin center.

--- Page 1153 of 2193 ---
Release option best practices
We recommend that you use the release options in the following ways to balance early access
with organizational readiness:
To get the latest Microsoft 365 improvements as soon as they reach general availability,
enroll your organization in standard release. Optionally, assign business-critical users to
deferred release to give them more time to prepare for major changes.
If you need extra time to validate deferred-capable features before broad rollout, use
deferred release. Assign a subset of IT pros or power users to standard release to evaluate
new features for privacy and compliance readiness.
Plan release phases around user impact and readiness, not individual feature controls, to
help manage risk and set clear expectations for users.
Align your release configuration with your change management and support readiness,
including documentation, training, and help desk preparation.
Review and adjust audience assignments over time as your organization's readiness and
change tolerance evolve.
Configure release options in Microsoft 365
admin center
By default, use standard release for Microsoft 365 service updates. This option meets the needs
of most customers. To better manage your organization's readiness and testing needs, you can
change the default release selection at any time in the Microsoft 365 admin center. It can take up
to 24 hours for the following changes to take effect in Microsoft 365.
７ Note
Currently, Deferred release option only supports Microsoft 365 Copilot-related features. For
information on which features are Deferred-capable, check Message Center posts. We'll
update this documentation as more features are supported.
To assign users to the Deferred release audience, follow these steps:
1. Sign in to the Microsoft 365 admin center.
2. In the left navigation, expand Copilot and select Settings.

--- Page 1154 of 2193 ---

3. Under the All Settings tab, select Copilot release preferences: General Availability.
4. Choose either Standard Release or Deferred Release.
5. Add any user exceptions. You can add up to 100 user exceptions to Standard release or
Deferred release.
If you want to only assign a specific user to deferred release, select Standard Release,
search for the user, and select their name.

--- Page 1155 of 2193 ---
If you want to only assign a specific user to standard release, select Deferred Release,
search for the user, and select their name.

--- Page 1156 of 2193 ---
6. Select Save.
７ Note
If you move users from standard release to deferred release, they might lose access to
features that aren't available yet in deferred release.

--- Page 1157 of 2193 ---
Related articles
Modern change management for Microsoft 365 - Overview
Get started with the Microsoft Release Communications MCP Server
Overview of Microsoft MCP Server for Enterprise
Get started with Microsoft Frontier program
What's new in Message center
Set up the standard or targeted release options for Microsoft 365
Last updated on 04/30/2026

--- Page 1158 of 2193 ---
Get started with the Microsoft Copilot
Frontier Program
The Microsoft Frontier program gives organizations early access to innovative and emerging AI
capabilities in Microsoft 365 before those features reach general availability (GA). By opting in to
Frontier, IT administrators can evaluate new Microsoft Copilot agents and AI-powered
experiences, determine readiness for broader deployment across their tenant, and provide
feedback about Frontier feature capabilities to Microsoft.
） Important
Frontier is managed at the tenant level. Production tenants can safely enroll users into the
Frontier program to allow your organization access to Frontier features. IT admins have
explicit control which users have access to which Frontier features.
Frontier features are preview and subject to change.
Microsoft's audience-based release model helps IT admins control how features are delivered to
different user groups. This release model includes:
Frontier (opt-in) is designed for early adopters who want pre-release access to features to
evaluate and prepare.
Standard release is the default release experience where users receive new features as soon
as they're generally available.
Deferred release is for audiences in more complex environments that need additional time
to validate changes before deployment.
To learn more about the audience-based release model, see Configure modern release options
for Microsoft 365 features.
Access to Frontier program experiences vary depending on your organization's subscription and
user roles.
Joining the Frontier program requires a Microsoft 365 Copilot license.
Frontier features are preview and subject to change.

--- Page 1159 of 2193 ---
To learn more about the Microsoft Frontier program, what's new, and how to try what's next in AI,
see Microsoft Frontier program .
Prerequisites
） Important
If you want to use Microsoft 365 Copilot Cowork, you need to make sure Anthropic is turned
on in your tenant. For more information, see Get started with Cowork.
Review the following requirements and recommendations:
Verify your admin role. You need an account that includes one of the following roles: AI
Admin, Security Admin, Office Apps Admin.
Verify that Microsoft 365 Copilot licenses are assigned to users who you want to access
Frontier features.
From the Microsoft 365 admin center, go to Billing > Licenses > Microsoft 365 Copilot
and confirm the assignments.
Users without a Microsoft 365 Copilot license aren't presented with Frontier features.
Verify that your own admin account has a Microsoft 365 Copilot license. Some Frontier
settings and agents in the Microsoft 365 admin center might not appear.
Enroll users in Frontier
You can manage Frontier settings in the Microsoft 365 admin center.
To turn on Frontier preview experiences for your users, do the following steps:
1. Sign in to the Microsoft 365 admin center .
2. Go to Copilot > Settings.
3. Select the View all tab.
4. In the Search all Copilot settings search bar, type "Frontier".
5. Select Copilot Frontier.
6. Choose how Frontier access is assigned in your organization:
No access (default)

--- Page 1160 of 2193 ---
All users
Specific users
After you turn on Frontier experiences for your organization, eligible users can access supported
preview features as they're released. It might take three hours for Frontier features and agents to
be available to users.
７ Note
Some Microsoft 365 AI features across platforms (Windows, Mac, iOS, and Android) are
currently released as a part of the Microsoft 365 Insider program. Learn more about the
Microsoft 365 Insider Program for Business .
Allow access to Frontier agents
Before your users can access Frontier agents, make sure that agent types are approved for use.
1. In the Microsoft 365 admin center , go to Agent > Settings > Allowed agent types.
2. Verify that Allow apps and agents built by Microsoft is checked. This setting allows the use
of Microsoft Frontier agents.
For more information about managing access to specific agents for specific users or groups, see
Agent settings in Microsoft 365 admin center.
For information about managing agents that show up in the Agent Store, see Set up Agent Store
in Microsoft 365 Copilot.
７ Note
The Frontier admin control doesn't override the settings configured in the Agent section of
the admin center. If an admin turned off a Frontier agent in the Agent view, that agent isn't
available to users, regardless of a user's Frontier enrollment.
） Important
After you enroll users in the Frontier program, Frontier agents are available to them from
the Agent store in Microsoft 365 Copilot. Search for "Built by Microsoft", and Frontier

--- Page 1161 of 2193 ---
program agents are displayed with (Frontier) in the name. It might take up to three hours
for Frontier agents to appear in the store.
Deploy agents to your users directly
You can install and pin specific agents to select users or groups directly rather than users needing
to search the Agent store. This method helps users start using Frontier agents more quickly.
1. Go to Agents > All agents.
2. Select the agent you want to install.
3. In the Users tab, add the specific users or security groups that you want to use this agent.
Use a Microsoft Entra ID security group to target specific users who can access Frontier
agents. This approach helps you validate experiences with a small group before broad
rollout.
4. In the agent flyout, select Install. To help users find the agent, you can select Pin for users.
The agent appears in the Microsoft 365 Copilot app.
Manage AI provider large language models
Some Frontier features and agents require access to large language models from AI providers,
such as Anthropic. Review the requirements and understand the implications for each large
language model you want to use.
To allow access to other models, use the Microsoft 365 admin center to explicitly approve each
model. For more information, see Manage AI provider settings in the Microsoft 365 admin center.
Configure AI-enabled Cloud PCs for Frontier
To use AI-enabled Cloud PCs during Frontier preview, you must meet the Cloud PC specifications
and turn on AI-enabled features to Cloud PCs in Microsoft Intune.
To learn more about AI-enabled Cloud PCs, including minimum requirements that must be met
before setup, see AI-enabled Cloud PC (Frontier Preview). After meeting these requirements,
follow the instructions in Manage AI-enabled features (Frontier Preview) to set up AI-enabled
Cloud PCs for your users.
Related articles

--- Page 1162 of 2193 ---
Microsoft Frontier program
Modern change management for Microsoft 365 - Overview
Configure modern release options for Microsoft 365 features
） Note: The author created this article with assistance from AI. Learn more
Last updated on 06/01/2026

--- Page 1163 of 2193 ---
Frequently asked questions about modern
release options for Microsoft 365
Applies to: Microsoft 365 Copilot, Microsoft 365 admin center
This article provides answers to frequently asked questions that IT admins might have about
release options in Microsoft 365. For more information about modern release options in
Microsoft 365, see Modern change management for Microsoft 365 - Overview and Configure
modern release options.
７ Note
Deferred release only supports features identified as both major updates and that are
deferred-capable. For information on which features are deferred-capable, check Message
Center posts.
Can I choose which users get Microsoft 365 features
earlier vs later?
Yes, within the same tenant, you can choose from the following options:
Assign most users to standard release and assign a subset of users to deferred release, or
Assign most users to deferred release and assign a small group of early adopters to
standard release
This allows you to:
Test changes with IT or pilot groups first
Give business-critical users more time before receiving changes
Can I defer individual features?
No, you can’t defer individual features. Deferred release applies to eligible major features that
Microsoft identifies as "deferred‑capable."
If your tenant is configured for deferred release, all eligible major features follow the deferred
timeline automatically.

--- Page 1164 of 2193 ---
You can still use existing admin controls (when available) to manage specific features in your
tenant.
When does the 30‑day deferred period begin?
The 30‑day timer starts when the feature begins rolling out in GA to standard release users
globally. The deferred period doesn't begin when the standard global rollout completes.
Standard users can begin evaluating the feature immediately, but users that are in deferred
release receive the feature 30 days later.
What if feature rollout takes weeks or months to reach
all users?
Microsoft rolls out Microsoft 365 features in stages to help ensure quality.
When we roll out a feature for general availability, standard release users receive the feature
before deferred release users. Users assigned to standard release can start evaluating the
feature as soon as it reaches your standard release users.
Deferred release users receive the deferred-capable feature 30 days after the rollout to
Standard release begins. This delay gives IT admins and power users more time to test,
validate, and prepare before the feature reaches your deferred release users.
Will tenant-wide features respect standard and
deferred user settings?
Most Microsoft 365 features are delivered at the user level and respect your standard and
deferred assignments. However, some features are deployed at the tenant level. Tenant-wide
changes might apply to all users at once, regardless of release audience assignment.
What happens if a feature needs to be rolled back?
If Microsoft finds a quality issue during rollout:
Microsoft pauses the rollout.
Users who haven’t received the feature won’t get it.
If needed, Microsoft might remove the feature from users who already received it.
Deferred release users won't receive a feature that Microsoft rolls back before it reaches them.

--- Page 1165 of 2193 ---
Does deferred release replace admin controls?
No, deferred release provides time to evaluate production-ready, generally available features. It
works alongside existing admin controls, feature-level enable/disable settings (when available).
You can still request additional controls through your Microsoft account team if needed.
How does Message center support deferred release?
For deferred release, we've updated the Message center to do the following actions:
Clearly identify deferred-eligible features
Include a Rollout timing column to help you plan for updates
Send out announcements closer to the start of GA to ensure accuracy
These updates can help reduce shifting timelines, improve readiness planning, and align
communications with generally available and fully supported features. For information about
Message center updates, see What's new in Message center.
Can I assign most of my organization to standard
release and specific users to deferred release?
Yes, if your organization needs more time for validating deferred-capable features, you can
leverage assigning specific users to deferred release in the audience-based release model. For
more information about configuring modern release options, see Configure modern release
options for Microsoft 365.
Does deferred release apply to features that aren't
major changes?
No, even if you have users in deferred release, a feature that isn’t classified as a major change
and deferred-eligible via Message center still releases to users when the feature is broadly
available.
How does deferred release affect Frontier features?
Deferred release doesn't apply to Frontier program features. Deferred release enables
customers to delay delivery of eligible features at general availability (GA). Frontier provides
preview access for early adopters to evaluate new experiences and provide feedback. Frontier

--- Page 1166 of 2193 ---
access is managed separately from deferred release. Although Frontier features are pre-release,
they run within an otherwise generally available (GA) environment. For more information about
the Frontier program, see Microsoft Frontier program .
Where can I find guidance on these new features and
updates?
Check for updates to this article, Modern change management for Microsoft 365 - Overview,
Message Center posts, and the Microsoft 365 Roadmap for more information about modern
change communications coming to Microsoft 365.
Do standard release and deferred release options
affect Microsoft 365 App release options?
No. For information about release options for Microsoft 365 Apps, see Overview of update
channels for Microsoft 365 Apps.
How does this impact targeted release?
If your organization is using targeted release for other Microsoft 365 services, you can continue
to do so as we drive towards our converged release strategy. We recommend configuring
release preferences for frontier, standard, and deferred audiences to align with the new release
model as Microsoft begins delivering an increasing number of major features through it over
time. Use the Microsoft Message center to keep up with new products and services using this
audience-based release model.
Related articles
Configure modern release options for Microsoft 365
Modern change management for Microsoft 365 - Overview
Get started with the Microsoft Release Communications MCP Server
What's new in Message center
Last updated on 04/16/2026

--- Page 1167 of 2193 ---
Set up the Standard or Targeted release
options for Microsoft 365
Applies to: Outlook (new), OneDrive, SharePoint in Microsoft 365, Microsoft 365 for the web, Microsoft 365
admin center, Exchange Online, Microsoft Teams
With Microsoft 365, you receive new product updates and features as they become available
instead of doing costly updates every few years. You can manage how your organization
receives these updates. For example, you can sign up for an early release so that your
organization receives updates first. You can designate that only certain individuals receive the
updates. Or, you can remain on the default release schedule and receive the updates later. This
article explains the different release options and how you can use them for your organization.
If your organization is using targeted release for Microsoft 365 services, you can continue to do
so as we drive towards our converged release strategy. We recommend configuring release
preferences for frontier, standard, and deferred audiences to align with the new release model
as Microsoft begins delivering an increasing number of major features through it over time.
Use the Microsoft Message Center to keep up with new products and services that use the
new, audience-based release model. For information about modern release options for
Microsoft 365, see Configure modern release options for Microsoft 365 Copilot.
） Important
The Microsoft 365 updates described in this article apply to new Outlook, OneDrive,
SharePoint in Microsoft 365, Microsoft 365 for the web, Microsoft 365 admin center, some
components of Exchange Online and Microsoft Teams. These release options are targeted,
best effort ways to release changes to Microsoft 365 but can't be guaranteed at all times
or for all updates. They don't currently apply to services other than those listed previously.
For information about release options for Microsoft 365 Apps, see Overview of update
channels for Microsoft 365 Apps.
How release validation works
Any new release is first tested and validated by the feature team, then by the entire Microsoft
365 feature team, followed by all of Microsoft. After internal testing and validation, the next
step is a Targeted release (formerly known as First release) to customers who opt in. At each

--- Page 1168 of 2193 ---
release ring, Microsoft collects feedback and further validates quality by monitoring key usage
metrics. This series of progressive validation is in place to make sure the worldwide-release is
as robust as possible. The releases are pictured in the following figure.
For significant updates, customers are initially notified by the Microsoft 365 Roadmap . As an
update gets closer to rolling out, it's communicated through your Microsoft 365 Message
center .
Standard release
For Microsoft 365, Standard release is the default option where you and your users receive the
latest updates when they're released broadly to all customers.
Targeted release
With this option, you and your users can be the first to see the latest updates and help shape
the product by providing early feedback. You can choose to have individuals or the entire
organization receive updates early.
） Important
Large or complex updates may take longer than others so that no users are adversely
affected. There is no guarantee on the exact timeline of a release. Targeted release is now
available for customers with either the Office 365 GCC plan or the Office 365 GCC High
plan and DoD plan for the following services: new Outlook, OneDrive, SharePoint in

--- Page 1169 of 2193 ---
Microsoft 365, Microsoft 365 for web, Microsoft 365 admin center, and some components
of Exchange Online.
７ Note
If you switch from targeted release back to standard release track, your users may lose
access to features that haven't reached standard release yet.
Targeted release for entire organization
If you Set up the release option in the admin center for this option, all your users will get the
Targeted release experience. For organizations with more than 300 users, we recommend using
a test subscription for this option. For test subscription information, reach out to your
Microsoft contact.
Targeted release for selected users
If you Set up the release option in the admin center for this option, you can define specific
users, usually power users, to receive early access to features and functionality.
It's important to ensure that your help desk is opted into Targeted release so that they have
access to the Targeted release features needed to support your users.
） Important
Some features only roll out on a per-organization basis. This means that the entire
organization will receive access to the feature at the same time. For features like this, it’s
not possible for selected users in the targeted release program to get the feature early.
This means that your organization won't be able to receive these features early if you have
configured selected users in targeted release. To make sure that you see all features in
targeted release, you'll need to configure targeted release for the entire organization or
set up a test organization.
Benefits of Targeted release
Targeted release allows admins, change managers, or anyone else responsible for Microsoft
365 updates to prepare for the upcoming changes by letting them:

--- Page 1170 of 2193 ---
Test and validate new updates before they're released to all users in the organization.
Prepare user notification and documentation before updates are released worldwide.
Prepare internal help-desk for upcoming changes.
Go through compliance and security reviews.
Use feature controls, where applicable, to control the release of updates to end users.
Best practices for Targeted release
Keep most users in standard release and assign IT pros and power users to targeted
release to evaluate new features ahead of broader rollout. Targeted release users can then
prepare user notifications, documentation, and the internal help desk before updates are
released worldwide.
Only assign specific users in targeted release.
If you need to test a feature in targeted release with a larger group of users (or a tenant),
consider using a test tenant instead of putting your entire organization in targeted
release.
Set up the release option in the admin center
You can change how your organization receives Microsoft 365 updates by following these
steps. You have to be a global admin in Microsoft 365 to opt in.
） Important
Microsoft recommends that you use roles with the fewest permissions. Using roles with
the fewest permissions helps improve security for your organization. Global Administrator
is a highly privileged role that should be limited to emergency scenarios when you can't
use an existing role. For more information, see About administrator roles in the Microsoft
365 admin center.
It can take up to 24 hours for the following changes to take effect in Microsoft 365. If you opt
out of targeted release after enabling it, your users might lose access to features that haven't
reached the scheduled release yet.
1. In the admin center, go to the Settings > Org Setting, and under the Organization
profile tab , choose Release preferences.
2. To opt out of targeted release, select Standard release, then select Save changes.

--- Page 1171 of 2193 ---
3. To enable targeted release for all users in your organization, select Targeted release for
everyone, then select Save changes.
4. To enable targeted release for some people in your organization, select Targeted release
for selected users, then select Save.
5. Choose Select users to add users one at a time, or Upload users to add them in bulk.
6. When you're done adding users, select Save.

Next steps
Discover how to manage messages in your Microsoft 365 Message center to get
notifications about upcoming Microsoft 365 updates and releases.
Related content
Modern change management for Microsoft 365 - Overview
Configure modern release options for Microsoft 365 Copilot
Get started with the Microsoft Release Communications MCP Server
Prepare for Microsoft 365 updates with Message center
Release notes for Outlook for Windows (new) Targeted Release
Last updated on 04/16/2026

--- Page 1172 of 2193 ---
Track new and changed features in the
Microsoft 365 Message center
The Microsoft 365 Message center helps IT admins track upcoming changes, feature updates,
and required actions across services. Use Message center to plan for change, prevent
disruptions, and stay informed about Microsoft 365 updates that affect your organization.
To open Message center from the Microsoft admin center, go to Health > Message center .
You can also use the Microsoft 365 Admin app on your mobile device to view Message
center, which is a great way to stay current with push notifications.
For the most recent updates to Message center, see What's new in Message center.
For frequently asked questions about Message center, see Message center FAQ.
Feature release status for your organization in
Message Center
７ Note
The release status is only available for limited Microsoft Teams feature announcements.
For each new and updated feature announcement in Message center, the Status for your org
field provides a release status to help you track when a feature is available in your tenant.
These three release statuses are updated on each applicable message over the lifecycle of the
feature release:
Scheduled: The feature is planned to release to your tenant, and isn't available to any
users in your organization
Rolling out: The feature is beginning to roll out to some applicable users in your
organization.
Launched: The feature is generally available to all the applicable users in your
organization.

--- Page 1173 of 2193 ---
Updates to feature release status are provided on the original Message center post. Filtering
capability on Status for your org allows easier visibility on the updated release status.
The release status is only available for new and updated features that are also announced on
Microsoft 365 Public Roadmap and that have general availability status (production ready). If
you don't see release status on a message, it means the release status isn't available for that
feature.
Relevance recommendation
For each new Message center post, we provide a recommendation for how relevant the change
is for your organization. This recommendation is based on multiple factors such as:
Apps and service usage.
Changes meant to prevent or fix issues for subscription.
Changes meant to help you plan ahead or stay informed.
Impact changes, such as data privacy and app and service retirements.
There are three levels of relevance:
High - These posts are about changes in your organization, which need immediate action
to avoid service disruption. These posts can also include feature releases with high
potential impact to your organization, for example, an app or service being heavily used
by people in your organization.
Medium - These posts are about changes in your organization, which don't need
immediate action. Examples are nonbreaking changes or new features for a service, which
is being used by your organization, an early announcement for an upcoming breaking
feature change, retirement
Low - These posts are about changes that you need to monitor. They're related to low
impact apps and services in your organization. Examples would be a feature update for an
app or service, which isn't actively used in your organization.
The relevance recommendations are only available for newer Message center posts. This means
the Message center posts you already received are "blank" for relevance recommendations.
If you see Processing for a Message center post, it means that the score is being computed for
this post and should be available soon. You should try to refresh after a few minutes.

--- Page 1174 of 2193 ---
Microsoft needs your feedback to improve the accuracy and relevance for Message center
posts. Use the Extended Feedback option on Message center posts to send us your opinions.
Filter messages
Message center presents a view of all active messages in a table format. By default, it shows
the most recent message at the top of the list.
Use the Service, Tag, and Message state drop-down menus to select a filtered view of
messages:
Under Service, you can select various services, such as Microsoft 365 Apps, SharePoint
Online, etc., to filter messages.
Under Tag, you can select Admin impact, Data privacy, Feature update, Major update,
New feature, Retirement, or User impact messages.
Under Message state, you can select Favorites, Unread, or Updated messages.
The Archive tab shows the messages you have archived. To archive a message from the
message pane, select Archive.
You can select any column heading, except Service and Tag, to sort messages in ascending or
descending order.
Major updates
Major updates can be reviewed by selecting the Major update from the Tags drop-down.
Major updates are communicated at least 30 days in advance when an action is required and
might include:
User impacting changes to daily productivity such as changing a user’s inbox, meetings,
delegations, sharing and access that might result in help desk calls, or organizational
conformance concerns.
Changes to the themes, web parts, deployed Copilot agents, and other components that
might impact customer customizations.
Increases or decreases to visible capacity such as storage, number of rules, Copilot agents
and prompts, items, or durations.
Rebranding that might cause end-user confusion or result in help desk changes, collateral
changes, or URL changes if the new URL isn't *.cloud.microsoft
A new service or application deployed with default settings turned on.

--- Page 1175 of 2193 ---
Changes to where data is stored or accessed.
Preferences
If administration is distributed across your organization, you might not want or need to see
posts about all Microsoft 365 services. Each admin can do the following actions:
Set preferences that control which messages are displayed in Message center.
Filter messages.
Set email preferences to receive a weekly digest of all messages, emails for major updates
only, and emails for data privacy messages.
To access Message center preferences, do the following steps:
1. Select Preferences at the top of Message center.
2. In the Custom View tab, make sure that the check box is selected for each service that
you want to monitor. Clear the check boxes for the services you want to filter out of your
Message center view.
3. Digest emails are turned on by default and are sent to your primary email address. To
stop receiving the weekly digest, clear the Send me email notifications from message
center check box in the Email tab.
You can also enter up to two email addresses, separated by a semicolon.
You can also choose the emails you want to get, and a weekly digest of services you
select.
4. Select Save to keep your changes.
Display messages in your preferred language
We use machine translation to automatically display messages in your preferred language.
Read Language translation for Message center posts for more information on how to set your
language.
７ Note
The weekly digest and any posts that are emailed are sent in English-only. Recipients can
use Translator for Outlook to read the message in their preferred language.

--- Page 1176 of 2193 ---
Service & monthly active users
When you open a message center post, we tell you the number of users who have been using
that Microsoft 365 app or service in the Service & monthly active users section. The numbers
are for the last 28 days. This info can help you prioritize which changes you should work on.
The number of monthly users applies to all users who have been using that Microsoft 365 app
or service on any device.
７ Note
This feature isn't available for all Microsoft 365 productivity apps and services yet. We'll let
you know when the feature isn't available.
Display specific columns
To choose columns, on the Message center page, on the far right, select Choose columns, and
in the Choose columns pane, select the ones you want displayed.
Here's a quick overview of the information in each column.
Column information
ﾉ Expand table
Column Description
Check mark Selecting the check mark in the column heading row selects all messages currently
displayed. Selecting the check mark next to one or more messages lets you take action on

--- Page 1177 of 2193 ---
Column Description
those messages.
Message Message titles are brief descriptions of upcoming changes. If the full title doesn't display,
title hover your cursor over it and the entire title appears in a pop-up box.
More More options let you dismiss a message, mark it as read or unread, or share it with another
options admin. To restore an archived message, select the Archive tab, select the check mark next
to the message, and select Restore.
Favorite You can select the star to mark a message as a favorite. Once you mark messages as
favorite, you can also sort and filter them.
Service Icons indicate the application to which the message applies.
Last Date that the message was published or last updated.
updated
Timing of Allows you to sort and filter posts by when a rollout is planned.
change
Act by We only have dates here if we're making a change that requires you to take an action by a
certain deadline. Since we rarely use the Act by column, if you see something here, you
should pay extra attention to it.
Relevance Relevance is our recommendation based on the potential impact to your organization and
the usage of affected services.
Status for This column only shows a status if the service is supported or if it's applicable.
your org
Tag You can choose tags from the Tag drop-down to filter messages.
Data Privacy: Data privacy notification (limited to global administrator and Message center
Privacy reader roles).
Major update: Changes communicated at least 30 days in advance (Major updates).
Retirement: Retirement of a service or feature.
New feature: New feature or service.
Feature update: Update to an existing feature.
Admin impact: When the change clearly impacts the admin in the following ways - UI
change, workflow change, control available, and Specific/Potential Action.
User impact: When the change to the service clearly impacts the user - UI Change and
workflow change.
Updated message: When a message is updated.

--- Page 1178 of 2193 ---
Column Description
Platform The platform that’s affected by the Message center post.
Category This column isn't shown by default, but can be specified in the Choose columns panel.
Messages are identified by one of the following three categories:
Prevent or fix issues: Informs you of known issues affecting your organization and might
require that you take action to avoid disruptions in service. Prevent or fix issues are
different than Service health messages because they prompt you to be proactive to avoid
issues.
Plan for change: Informs you of changes to Microsoft 365 that might require you to act to
avoid disruptions in service. For example, we let you know about changes to system
requirements or about features that are being removed. We try to provide at least 30 days'
notice of any change that requires an admin to act to keep the service running normally.
Stay informed: Tells you about new or updated features we're turning on in your
organization. announced first in the Microsoft 365 Roadmap .
Also lets you know about planned maintenance in accordance with our Service Level
Agreement. Planned maintenance might result in down time, where you or your users can't
access Microsoft 365, a specific feature, or a service such as email or OneDrive.
Message ID Microsoft tracks our Message center posts by message ID. You can refer to this ID if you
want to give feedback or if you call Support about a particular message.
Admin roles that don't have access to the Message center
Most users assigned any admin role in Microsoft 365 can view Message center posts. You can
also assign the Message center reader role to users who should be able to read and share
Message center posts without having any other admin privileges.
The following admin roles don't have access to the Message center:
Compliance administrator
Conditional access administrator
Customer Lockbox access approver
Device administrators
Directory readers
Directory synchronization accounts
Directory writers
Intune service administrator
Privileged role administrator
Reports reader

--- Page 1179 of 2193 ---
） Important
Microsoft recommends that you use roles with the fewest permissions. Using roles with
the fewest permissions helps improve security for your organization. Global Administrator
is a highly privileged role that should be limited to emergency scenarios when you can't
use an existing role. For more information, see About administrator roles in the Microsoft
365 admin center.
For more information about admin roles, see About administrator roles in the Microsoft 365
admin center.
Give feedback on a post
In the Message center, you can select a message to view details.
If a Message Center post isn't relevant to your organization, provide us with feedback. Select
thumbs up or thumbs down on the MC post and select This change isn't relevant to my org.
７ Note
If you're using Microsoft 365 for Government - GCC High and Office 365 Government -
DoD, you can't provide feedback on a post.
Share a message
See a message that someone else needs to act on? You can share the contents of the message
with any user by email:
1. Select the message to open it, and then select Share.
2. To share the message, enter email addresses separated by a colon. You can send to
individual and group email addresses. Optionally, you can choose to receive a copy of the
message in email (the message goes to your primary email address) or add a personal
message to provide recipients with more context.
3. Select Share to send the email.
Get a link

--- Page 1180 of 2193 ---
Need to follow up with another admin to make sure they're aware of a change and taking
action? You can generate a link to share in email or instant messaging. The person you share
the link with has to have access to Message center. For more information, see admin roles that
don't have access to the Message center.
1. Select the message center post.
2. Select Copy link.
3. Use Ctrl+V or right-click and select Paste to insert the link to whatever document you
wish.
Read and unread states
Any unread message in Message center appears in bold. Opening a message marks it as read.
To mark a message as unread, from the main page of the message center, select the More
options ellipses next to a message, and then select Mark as unread. You can also open a
message and mark it as unread in the details panel.
Archive and restore a message
If you see a message that doesn't pertain to you, or maybe you've already acted on it, you can
archive the message. Archiving a message removes it from the Inbox. The view that you see in
the Message center is specific to your user account, so archiving it from your view doesn't
affect other admins.
There are two ways to archive a message:
On the main page of the Message center, select a message, and then select Archive
above the list of messages.
Open the message, and then select Archive on the top of the message pane.
Need to get an archived message back? No problem.
1. Select the Archive tab at the top of the Message center. A list of archived messages
appears.
2. Select the message, select Restore, and the message is restored to Inbox.
Scroll messages in the message pane

--- Page 1181 of 2193 ---
When you open a message in a reading pane, you can use the Up and Down arrows on
the top of the pane to move to the next, or the previous message in the list.
Track your message center tasks in Planner
A lot of actionable information about changes to Microsoft 365 services arrives in the Microsoft
365 message center. It can be difficult to keep track of which changes require tasks to be done,
when, and by whom, and to track each task to completion. You also might want to make a note
of something and tag it to check on later. You can do all this and more when you sync your
messages from the Microsoft 365 admin center to Microsoft Planner. For more information, see
Track your message center tasks in Planner.
Set language translation for Message center posts
To learn how to set your language preferences to enable machine translation for Message
center posts, see Language translation for Message center posts.
Work with service communications API in Microsoft
Graph
If you'd like to program an alternative way to get real-time service health information and
Message center communications, see Working with service communications API in Microsoft
Graph.
For AI-powered workflows, you can also use Microsoft MCP Server for Enterprise. For more
information, see Overview of Microsoft MCP Server for Enterprise.
Unsubscribe from Message center emails
1. Digest emails are turned on by default and are sent to your primary email address. To
stop receiving the weekly digest, select Preferences and then Email.
Deselect the Send a weekly digest of my messages checkbox.
Email notification for major updates is a separate control. If you don't want to
receive email notices about major updates, verify that Send me emails for major
updates checkbox isn't selected.
To stop receiving email notices about data privacy messages, verify that Send me
emails for data privacy messages checkbox isn't selected. (Data privacy messages
aren't included in the weekly digest.)

--- Page 1182 of 2193 ---
2. Select Save to keep your changes.
Related articles
What's new in Message center
Frequently asked questions about Message center
Modern change management for Microsoft 365 - Overview
Configure modern release options
Overview of Microsoft MCP Server for Enterprise
Get started with the Microsoft Release Communications MCP Server
Last updated on 04/16/2026

--- Page 1183 of 2193 ---
What's new in Message center
This article describes the new features and improvements in the Microsoft 365 Message center.
For more information about Message center, see Prepare for Microsoft 365 updates with
Message center.
April 2026
The Microsoft 365 Message center is now more timely, relevant, and concise to support
actionable communications. To help IT admins quickly understand changes, posts now include
bullet-point summaries, direct links to documentation, and launch-day announcements instead
of early notifications.
A new Timing of change column allows you to sort and filter posts by when a rollout is
planned. To view a list of all available columns and their descriptions, see Message center in the
Microsoft 365 admin center.
For AI-powered workflows, you can use Microsoft Model Context Protocol (MCP) Server for
Enterprise. For more information, see Overview of Microsoft MCP Server for Enterprise.
Message Center posts now include a dedicated section that describes known security and
compliance considerations for each feature release. This inclusion helps admins, especially
those in highly regulated industries, with security and compliance-specific information
necessary to understand potential compliance and regulatory impact for each feature.
Message center includes an improved post structure with the following new sections:
What and Why
This section briefly describes the change with the reason behind it and includes the following
details:
What is changing (for example, new feature, update, retirement)
Why Microsoft is making the change (for example, customer feedback, security,
productivity)
Alignment with one of three areas:
Personal and Team Productivity
Business Process Automation

--- Page 1184 of 2193 ---
Enterprise-ready AI
Rollout Schedule
This section specifies when the change begins and ends and includes the following details:
Start and end dates
Phased rollout information, if applicable
Preview or General Availability (GA) status
Impact on Your Organization
This section helps you understand who and what is affected and includes the following details:
Who's affected: Scope of impact (for example, all users, specific roles, tenants)
Platforms/Services: Where the change applies (for example, Teams, Outlook, mobile,
desktop)
What will happen describes the following information::
UI changes
Feature behavior
Default settings
Policy interactions
End-user experience
Action Required/Recommendations
This section guides IT admins on what to do and includes the following details:
Checklist of required actions (for example, update settings, notify helpdesk)
Optional recommendations
Links to admin guides or documentation
Whether the feature is opt-in or enabled by default
Compliance Considerations
This section identifies any implications for data handling and governance and includes the
following details:
Data storage or processing changes
AI/ML interactions with customer data
Communication or access changes

--- Page 1185 of 2193 ---
Impact on Purview capabilities (for example, DLP, eDiscovery)
Admin control availability and Microsoft Entra ID integration
Whether users can self-manage the feature
Related articles
Overview of Microsoft MCP Server for Enterprise
Prepare for Microsoft 365 updates with Message center
Message center FAQs
Modern change management for Microsoft 365 - Overview
Last updated on 04/16/2026

--- Page 1186 of 2193 ---
Frequently asked questions about Message
center
This article provides answers to frequently asked questions that IT admins might have about
Message center in Microsoft 365. For more information about Message center, see Manage
continuous change in Microsoft 365 and Track new and changed features in the Microsoft 365
Message center.
Who can view posts in Message center?
Most users assigned any admin role in Microsoft 365 can view Message center posts. Here's a
list of admin roles that don't have access to the Message center. You can also assign the
Message center reader role to users who should be able to read and share Message center
posts without having any other admin privileges.
Is Message center the only way Microsoft
communicates changes about Microsoft 365?
No, but Message center is the primary way we communicate the timing of individual changes
in Microsoft 365. For more information, see Stay on top of Microsoft 365 changes.
How can I see Message center posts in my language?
Message center posts are written in English. You can control whether, by default, posts are
shown in English or are automatically machine-translated to your preferred language. You can
also select to machine-translate posts to any language we support. For more information, see
Language translation for Message center posts.
Can I preview changes or features before they're
rolled-out to my organization?
Some changes and new features can be previewed by opting in to the Targeted release
program. To opt in, from the Microsoft admin center, go to Settings > Org settings >
Organization profile > Release preferences. You might need to select Show all at the bottom
of the left navigation pane in Microsoft admin center to see Settings. You can choose Targeted

--- Page 1187 of 2193 ---
release for your entire organization, or just for selected users. For more information about
Targeted release, see Standard or Targeted release options in Microsoft 365.
Can I find out the exact date a change is available in
my organization?
Unfortunately, we can't tell you the exact date a change is made to your organization. In our
Message center post, we give as much information as we can on the timing of the release,
based on our confidence level. We're working on improvements to get better with that level of
detail.
Are these messages specific to my organization?
We do our best to make sure that you only see Message center posts that affect your
organization. The Microsoft 365 Roadmap includes all of the features we're currently working
on and rolling out, but not all of these features apply to every organization.
Can I get message center posts emailed instead?
Yes, you can select to have a weekly digest emailed to you and up to two other email
addresses. The emailed weekly digest is turned on by default. If you aren't getting your weekly
digests, check your spam folder. For more information on how to set up the weekly digest, see
Preferences in Message center.
How do I stop getting the Message center digest?
1. Go to Message center in the Microsoft admin center and select Preferences.
2. In the Email tab, turn off the option to Send me email notifications from message
center.
How can I ensure data privacy notifications are
received by the right contacts in my organization?
As a global admin, you receive data privacy messages for your organization. Additionally, you
can assign the Message Center Privacy reader role to people who should see data privacy
messages. Other admin roles with access to Message Center can't view data privacy messages.
For more information, see Preferences in Message center.

--- Page 1188 of 2193 ---
Why can’t I see a message that was previously in
Message center?
To manage the number of messages within Message center, each message expires and is
removed after a period of time. Generally, messages expire 30 days after the time period
outlined in the message body.
Related articles
Track new and changed features in the Microsoft 365 Message center
What's new in Message center
Modern change management for Microsoft 365 - Overview
Overview of Microsoft MCP Server for Enterprise
Get started with the Microsoft Release Communications MCP Server
Last updated on 04/16/2026

--- Page 1189 of 2193 ---
Get Started with the Microsoft Release
Communications MCP Server
Applies to: Microsoft 365 Roadmap, Azure Updates, VS Code, Visual Studio, GitHub Copilot CLI
This article introduces the Microsoft Release Communications (MRC) Model Context Protocol
(MCP) Server, explains how it works, and outlines how to start using it in your environment.
The MRC MCP Server provides a unified, programmatic way for MCP-compatible AI clients to
access trusted and up-to-date information that powers Microsoft 365 Roadmap and Azure
Updates .
MRC MCP Server is a remote MCP server that uses streamable HTTP transport, which allows
users to search, filter and retrieve the latest feature release information using natural language
in AI clients.
Instead of requiring developers to understand schemas and query APIs, this tool lets anyone
ask questions in plain language to get precise, structured answers.
Use cases
With MRC MCP, you can do the following actions:
Enhance AI clients such as Visual Studio Code (VS Code), Visual Studio, GitHub Copilot
CLI, Claude Code, and other MCP‑compatible clients.
Enable IT admins, engineers, and technical users to query release and roadmap
information directly from their AI client without relying on the websites.
Requirements
Although the MRC MCP Server is publicly available and free to use, users are subject to the
Microsoft API Terms of Use. Read and understand the API Terms of Use before using the MRC
MCP Server and before including the output in any production environment.
There's no authentication required to access the MRC MCP Server. Users can use their
preferred MCP client or agentic development environment, such as VS Code, Visual Studio, and
more.
There's no licensing required to use the MRC MCP server.

--- Page 1190 of 2193 ---
MCP Endpoint
To connect with MRC MCP Server, use a compatible AI client with the endpoint pointing to the
following URL:
HTML
https://www.microsoft.com/releasecommunications/mcp
７ Note
This endpoint provides programmatic access for MCP clients over Streamable HTTP. It
doesn't support direct access from a web browser and might return a 405 Method Not
Allowed error if accessed manually.
Installation guide
Although VS Code is a common client for MCP Server, MCP is an open protocol that's also
supported by many clients including agents in Copilot Studio, in Foundry, and many other
agentic IDEs. For some other MCP‑compatible clients, the configuration steps are similar and
involve adding the MCP server endpoint to a client‑specific configuration file or settings.
The high-level process includes the following steps:
1. Configure your AI client.
2. Use the MCP server.
Standard configuration
The following standard configuration works in most clients:
JSON
{
"servers": {
"MRC-MCP-Server": {
"type": "http",
"url": "https://www.microsoft.com/releasecommunications/mcp"
}
}
}

--- Page 1191 of 2193 ---
Configure your Editor
For detailed instructions on how to configure the MRC MCP Server in specific clients, see the
following guides:
ﾉ Expand table
Client Installation / Configuration MCP Guide
VS Code 1. Open mcp.json at User level (applies to every VS Code session) or VS Code MCP
Workspace level (.vscode/mcp.json in your project folder). configuration guide
The user-level file is located in the VS Code user settings directory:
- Windows: %APPDATA%\Code\User\mcp.json
- macOS: ~/Library/Application Support/Code/User/mcp.json
- Linux: ~/.config/Code/User/mcp.json
2. Add the standard configuration MCP server entry.
3. Query release data using your AI client.
Visual 1. Create .mcp.json at solution or user level Visual Studio MCP
Studio 2. Add the standard configuration MCP server entry. configuration guide
3. Query release data using your AI client.
GitHub 1. Run /mcp add in interactive mode, opens a configuration form. Copilot CLI MCP
Copilot 2. Enter a server name and select HTTP as the server type. No guide
CLI authentication is required.
3. Press Ctrl+S to save (server is available immediately).
or
edit ~/.copilot/mcp-config.json.
Claude Follow Add custom connector instructions in official guide. Claude Desktop MCP
Desktop guide
Claude Run claude mcp add --transport http mrc-mcp Claude Code MCP
Code https://www.microsoft.com/releasecommunications/mcp guide
or
edit ~/.claude/mcp.json
Cursor 1. Open Cursor MCP settings. Cursor MCP guide .
2. Edit the MCP server configuration to mcp.json.
Codex Run codex mcp add mrc-mcp --url Codex MCP
https://www.microsoft.com/releasecommunications/mcp. documentation
Available Tools
The MCP server exposes four tools:

--- Page 1192 of 2193 ---
ﾉ Expand table
Tool Description
get_recent_azure_updates Retrieves Azure update posts from Microsoft Release Communications with
optional filtering and search capabilities. Returns up to 50 updates per
request with truncated descriptions. Supports OData filtering by products,
product categories, tags (Features, Retirements, Security, etc.), status,
availability dates, and publication dates. Includes text search on titles and
pagination
get_azure_update_by_id Retrieves a specific Azure update post by its unique identifier. Returns full
details of products, tags, and availability dates. Use the unique Azure
Updates ID to get more information about a specific post.
get_recent_roadmaps Retrieves Microsoft 365 roadmap posts from Microsoft Release
Communications with optional filtering and search capabilities. Returns up to
50 roadmap items per request with truncated descriptions. Supports OData
filtering by products, platforms, release rings, cloud instances, status,
availability dates, and publication dates. Includes text search on titles and
pagination.
get_roadmap_by_id Retrieves a specific Microsoft 365 roadmap post by its unique identifier.
Returns full details of products and availability dates. Use the unique
Microsoft 365 roadmap ID to get more information about a specific post.
 Tip
The list tools (get_recent_azure_updates, get_recent_roadmaps) return truncated
descriptions to fit within AI context windows.
Use the MCP Server
To use the MRC MCP Server after installation, do the following steps:
1. Open a chat window in VS Code with GitHub Copilot or your AI client.
2. Ask a question related to Microsoft 365 Roadmap or Azure Updates.
3. Allow the client to use MCP server tools when prompted.
4. Review the response.
Example queries
Here are sample natural‑language queries that demonstrate how users can retrieve product
release information across Microsoft 365 Roadmap and Azure Updates:

--- Page 1193 of 2193 ---
Microsoft 365 Roadmap
As per Microsoft 365 Roadmap, which Microsoft Teams product features are releasing in
June?
Which Outlook product features on the Microsoft 365 Roadmap were updated last week?
What's the status of Feature ID 526798?
List all Excel features launching on Mac that are releasing in March.
Create an email for my Compliance team to review the Microsoft Purview features that
are currently rolling out on Microsoft 365 Roadmap.
What's planned for mobile-only apps in OneNote?
Azure Updates
Which Azure features became Generally Available this quarter?
Show all Azure retirements scheduled for this year.
What are the latest Azure AI services updates?
Which Azure Databricks features were released in February?
List all Azure features that are retiring in next three months.
Limitations
The MRC MCP server contains publicly available documentation, which is available on
Microsoft 365 Roadmap and Azure Updates . The underlying product release information
refreshes daily.
Troubleshooting
MCP tools aren't being invoked
In some cases, even tool-friendly models might not call MCP tools by default. You can improve
tool usage by providing system-level instructions (if supported by your AI client) that explicitly
encourage use of the Release Communications MCP Server tools.
System instructions prompt example
When an AI tool doesn't use the MCP tool when expected, configure specific system-level
instructions for the tool, similar to the following text:
markdown

--- Page 1194 of 2193 ---
You have access to MCP tools provided by the Release Communications MCP Server:
- `get_recent_roadmaps`
- `get_roadmap_by_id`
- `get_recent_azure_updates`
- `get_azure_update_by_id`
When handling questions about Microsoft 365 Roadmap features or Azure service
updates, use these tools to retrieve the most current and authoritative release
information
before responding. When handling questions about Microsoft 365 product roadmap
timelines, upcoming feature releases, Azure service updates, or release status for
specific products (Teams, Outlook, SharePoint, Excel, etc).
Here are some general best practices:
Be explicit in your prompt (for example, mention Azure Updates or Microsoft 365
Roadmap). If the prompt is too generic or doesn't clearly relate to release or roadmap
data, then your AI client might not invoke MCP tools.
Use a system-level instruction (if supported by your AI client) to encourage tool usage.
Confirm that the MCP server is correctly configured and enabled in your client
Customize MCP tool selection
VS Code and Visual Studio
VS Code and Visual Studio support explicit MCP tool selection in Copilot Agent mode. You can
improve accuracy by selecting only relevant tools, such as Azure Update tools.
1. Open Chat.
2. Select Agent mode.
3. Select Configure Tools.
4. Select or deselect MCP tools before running the prompt.
Related documentation
Use tools with agents in VS Code
Configure MCP servers in VS Code
Use MCP servers in Visual Studio
Claude Desktop, Claude Code, Cursor, Codex, GitHub Copilot
These clients don't expose explicit tool selection UI. Instead, do the actions:
Use system instructions to guide tool usage.

--- Page 1195 of 2193 ---
Avoid mixing Azure and Microsoft 365 topics in one prompt.
Related documentation
Connect to remote MCP servers
MCP tools specification
Related articles
Modern change management for Microsoft 365 - Overview
Configure modern release options for Microsoft 365 Copilot
What's new in Message center
Last updated on 04/16/2026

--- Page 1196 of 2193 ---
Overview of Microsoft MCP Server for
Enterprise (preview)
The Microsoft MCP Server for Enterprise https://mcp.svc.cloud.microsoft/enterprise is a
programmatic interface for AI agents to query enterprise data in your Microsoft Entra tenant by
using natural language. Built on the Model Context Protocol (MCP) , an open standard that
specifies how AI models interact with external tools and services, it translates natural language
requests into Microsoft Graph API calls.
This overview explains how Microsoft MCP Server for Enterprise works and how you can
integrate it into your AI-powered workflows.
） Important
Microsoft MCP Server for Enterprise is currently in PREVIEW. This information relates to a
prerelease product that may be substantially modified before it's released. Microsoft
makes no warranties, expressed or implied, with respect to the information provided here.
Microsoft MCP Server for Enterprise is offered under the Microsoft APIs Terms of Use.
How it works
Suppose an administrator asks, "How many users do we have in our Microsoft Entra tenant?" The
following steps show the workflow that runs inside an MCP-enabled AI agent:
1. NLP processing: The Large Language Model (LLM) analyzes the current prompt and chat
history to extract intent (for example, "count the number of users in the tenant"). It
decides to call the microsoft_graph_suggest_queries tool that ships with the Enterprise
MCP Server.
2. Semantic search: microsoft_graph_suggest_queries converts the question into
embeddings and searches its semantic index of Microsoft Graph query examples. It
returns matches such as "count total number of users" or "count guest users," which map
to candidate Graph API calls.
3. Query selection: The LLM evaluates the returned examples, selects the most relevant API
call (for example, GET /users/$count), and determines the tool parameters that it needs.
4. Execution: The LLM invokes the microsoft_graph_get tool to run the GET /users/$count
request. The MCP Server enforces the user's privileges and the scopes granted to the
MCP client.
5. API processing: The MCP Server forwards the request to Microsoft Graph, receives the
JSON response, and returns it to the MCP client.

--- Page 1197 of 2193 ---
6. Natural language response: The LLM interprets the JSON payload and converts it into a
natural language answer such as, "There are 10,930 users in the directory."
Tools
The Microsoft MCP Server for Enterprise exposes the following tools that an AI agent can
invoke:
microsoft_graph_suggest_queries: Uses retrieval-augmented generation (RAG) to search
a curated catalog of Microsoft Graph API examples that align with the user's intent.
microsoft_graph_get: Runs read-only Microsoft Graph API calls while honoring user roles,
granted scopes, and Graph throttling limits.
microsoft_graph_list_properties: Retrieves the schema for Microsoft Graph entities so
that the AI model understands available properties and relationships before constructing
requests.
Usage scenarios
The Microsoft MCP Server for Enterprise enables several key scenarios:
IT helpdesk and support: Support staff can answer questions like "Which users didn't sign
in last month?" or "Is MFA enabled for all administrators?" without memorizing Graph
endpoints. Multi-step questions such as "List all inactive user accounts that have Copilot
licenses assigned" can also be handled.
Administrative reporting: Administrators can generate reports conversationally (for
example, "Show me the unassigned licenses in my tenant" or "How many guest users do we
have?").
API discovery and prototyping: Developers can explore and test Microsoft Graph APIs
using natural language before integrating them into applications. The MCP server
surfaces the underlying API calls so developers can reuse them in scripts or code.
Automation and scripting: Scripted solutions, Power Platform flows, or Logic Apps can
call the MCP server to execute delegated, natural-language-driven queries over Microsoft
Entra data.
Current scope and capabilities
Microsoft MCP Server for Enterprise is currently in public preview. It focuses on Microsoft Entra
identity and directory read-only scenarios such as user, group, application, and device insights,
plus administrative reporting. All operations respect existing Microsoft Graph permissions, user
privileges, and tenant security policies.

--- Page 1198 of 2193 ---
Licensing and costs
There is no additional cost or separate license required to enable the MCP Server for
Enterprise.
You must have the appropriate licenses for the data you access (for example, Microsoft
Entra ID Governance or Microsoft Entra ID P2 for Privileged Identity Management (PIM)
content).
Requests are limited to 100 calls per minute per user. Calls made through
microsoft_graph_get are also subject to the standard Microsoft Graph throttling limits.
Cloud availability
Microsoft MCP Server for Enterprise is currently available only in the public cloud (global
service).
Logs
To log and monitor usage of Microsoft MCP Server for Enterprise, enable Microsoft Graph
activity logs in your tenant. The MCP server uses Microsoft Graph APIs, so every request that an
MCP client executes is captured in those logs.
For logs specific to MCP server usage, filter the activity logs by the MCP server appId
(displayed as "application (client) ID" in the Entra admin center or AppId in the Log Analytics
schema): e8c77dc2-69b3-43f4-bc51-3213c9d915b4. The following sample Kusto query retrieves
these entries:
Kusto
MicrosoftGraphActivityLogs
| where TimeGenerated >= ago(30d)
| where AppId == "e8c77dc2-69b3-43f4-bc51-3213c9d915b4"
| project RequestId, TimeGenerated, UserId, RequestMethod, RequestUri,
ResponseStatusCode
Next step
Get started with MCP Server for Enterprise
Last updated on 11/25/2025

--- Page 1199 of 2193 ---
Microsoft 365 usage analytics overview
） Important
Starting in March 2026, the Company, City, and ProxyAddresses field filters in the User
Activity tab will no longer be supported.
To continue filtering activity data by company, city and proxy addresses attributes, you
can join metrics from the Microsoft 365 usage report Graph API with your own data
sources and build a custom dashboard in Power BI or another data visualization tool of
your choice. The following Graph API reports include user-level detail:
getEmailActivityUserDetail
getOneDriveActivityUserDetail
getSharePointActivityUserDetail
getSkypeForBusinessActivityUserDetail
getTeamsUserActivityUserDetail
getYammerActivityUserDetail
If using Microsoft 365 usage report Graph API is not an option for your organization, you
can also export user detail reports directly from the Microsoft 365 admin center as an
alternative.
This article is intended for Microsoft 365 administrators who want to understand what insights
Microsoft 365 usage analytics provides and how the available reports support adoption and
licensing decisions.
Use Microsoft 365 usage analytics within Power BI to gain insights on how your organization is
adopting the various services within Microsoft 365. You can visualize and analyze Microsoft 365
usage data, create custom reports, and share the insights within your organization. You can
also gain insights into how specific regions or departments are using Microsoft 365.
Microsoft 365 usage analytics gives you access to a prebuilt dashboard that provides a cross-
product view of the last 12 months and contains many prebuilt reports. Each report provides
specific usage insights. User-specific information is available for the last full calendar month.
The data model that powers the template app includes user attributes from Active Directory,
enabling you to pivot in certain reports. The following Active Directory attributes are included:

--- Page 1200 of 2193 ---
location, department, and organization.
To start collecting data, see Enable Microsoft 365 usage analytics.
Microsoft 365 usage analytics contains many reports detailed in the following sections.
You can access detailed reports for each area by selecting the data tables. You can view all
prebuilt reports by selecting the tabs at the bottom of the site. For more detailed instructions,
see the following articles:
Navigating and utilizing the reports.
Customizing the reports.
Data availability
Most reports show the last 12 months of data.
User-level details are available for the latest complete calendar month.
Month values shown in reports always refer to the latest complete month unless
otherwise noted.
Executive summary dashboard
The executive summary is a high-level, at-a-glance view of Microsoft 365 for Business
adoption, usage, mobility, communication, collaboration, and storage reports. Business
decision makers use the executive summary. It provides a view into how some individual
services are used, based on all the users who are enabled and those users who are active. All
values of the month shown on the report refer to the latest complete month.
This summary lets you quickly understand usage patterns in Microsoft 365 and how and where
your users are collaborating.

--- Page 1201 of 2193 ---

Microsoft 365 reports overview
The Microsoft 365 overview report contains the following reports. You can view them by
choosing the tab on top of the report page. All values of the month shown on the top section
of the report refer to the latest complete month.
Adoption: Offers an all-up summary of adoption trends. Use the reports in this section to
learn how your users adopted Microsoft 365, and how overall usage of the individual
services changed month over month. In this report, you can see:
How many users are enabled.
How many users actively use Microsoft 365.
How many users are returning users.
How many users are using the product for the first time.
Usage: Offers a drill-down view into the volume of active users and the key activities for
each product for the last 12 months. Use the reports in this section to learn how people in
your organization are using Microsoft 365.
Communication: You can see at a glance whether people in your organization prefer to
stay in touch by using Teams, Viva Engage, email, or Teams calls. You can observe if there
are shifts in patterns in the use of communication tools among your users.
Collaboration: See how people in your organization use OneDrive and SharePoint to
store documents and collaborate with each other, and how these trends evolve month

--- Page 1202 of 2193 ---
over month. You can also see how many users shared documents internally or externally
and how many users used SharePoint sites or OneDrive accounts, broken out by owners
and other collaborators.
Storage: Use this report to track cloud storage for mailboxes, OneDrive, and SharePoint
sites.
Mobility: Track which clients and devices people use to connect to email, Teams, or Viva
Engage.
Activation and licensing reports
The activation and license page offers reports on Microsoft 365 activation. It shows how many
users downloaded and activated Microsoft 365 apps and how many licenses your organization
assigned. The month value towards the top refers to the current month, and the metrics reflect
values aggregated from the beginning of the month to the current date.
Activation: Track service plan activations (for example, Microsoft 365 Apps for enterprise,
Project, and Visio) in your organization. Each person with a Microsoft 365 license can
install products on up to five devices. You can also use reports in this section to see the
devices on which people installed Microsoft 365 productivity apps. To activate a plan, a
user must install the app and sign in by using their account.
Licensing: This report contains an overview of license types, the count of users who were
assigned each license type, and the license assignment distribution for each month. The
month value towards the top refers to the current month, and the metrics reflect values
aggregated from the beginning of the month to the current date.
Product usage reports
This report contains a separate report for each Microsoft 365 service, including Exchange,
Microsoft 365 groups, OneDrive, SharePoint, Teams, and Viva Engage. Each report contains
total enabled versus total active user reports, counts of entities such as mailboxes, sites,
groups, accounts, and activity type reports where appropriate. All values of the month shown in
the top section of the report refer to the latest complete month.
User activity reports
User activity reports are available for certain individual services. These reports provide user-
level detail usage data joined with Active Directory attributes. In addition, the Department

--- Page 1203 of 2193 ---
Adoption report lets you slice by Active Directory attributes so that you can see active users
across all individual services. All metrics are aggregated for the latest complete month. To view
the content date, go to the table page and select the UserActivity table where the value under
TimeFrame provides the reporting period.
７ Note
Global Reader and Usage Summary Reports Reader don't have permission to view the user
activity reports.
Frequently asked questions (FAQs)
For answers to frequently asked questions about Microsoft 365 usage analytics, see Microsoft
365 usage analytics FAQs.
Related content
Enable Microsoft 365 usage analytics.
Navigate and utilize the reports in Microsoft 365 usage analytics.
Microsoft 365 Reports in the Microsoft 365 admin center.
Last updated on 04/15/2026

--- Page 1204 of 2193 ---
Microsoft 365 usage analytics overview
FAQ
This article provides answers to frequently asked questions that administrators might have
about Microsoft 365 usage analytics. For more information about Microsoft 365 usage
analytics, see Microsoft 365 usage analytics overview.
Is the template app available through for
purchase or is it free?
The template app isn't free. A Power BI Pro license is required. For details, see prerequisites for
installing, customizing, and distributing a template app.
To share the dashboards with others, see Share dashboards and reports.
Who can connect to Microsoft 365 usage
analytics?
You must have one of the following roles to connect to the template app:
Exchange admin.
Teams admin.
SharePoint admin.
Global reader.
Report reader.
Usage Summary Reports Reader.
For more information, see About admin roles.
７ Note
Global Reader and Usage Summary Reports Reader can only access tenant level
aggregates in Microsoft 365 usage analytics. They don't have permission to view the user
activity reports.
Who can customize the usage analytics
reports?

--- Page 1205 of 2193 ---
Only the user who makes the initial connection to the template app can customize the reports
or create new reports in the Power BI web interface. For instructions, see Customizing the
reports in Microsoft 365 usage analytics.
Can I only customize the reports from the
Power BI web interface?
In addition to customizing the reports from the Power BI web interface, users can also use
Power BI Desktop to connect directly to the Microsoft 365 reporting service to build their own
reports.
How can I get the pbit file that this
dashboard is associated with?
You can access the pbit file from the Microsoft Download Center .
Who can view the dashboards and reports?
If you connect to the template app, you can share it with anyone by using the sharing
functionality. Power BI licensing requires that both the user sharing and the user with whom a
dashboard is shared have Power BI Pro or Power BI Premium.
Can anyone share the dashboard, or does it
have to be the person who connected to
the dashboard?
When sharing the dashboard, you can either:
Allow users to reshare the dashboard with others.
Not allow users to reshare the dashboard with others.
You can set this option at the time of sharing.
Is it possible to work on and customize the
same template app with a group of

--- Page 1206 of 2193 ---
people?
Yes. To enable a group of admins to work together on the same template app, use the app
workspace functionality of Power BI. For more information, see How should I collaborate and
share dashboards and reports?
Which timeframe is data available?
Most of the reports display data for the previous 12 months. However, some of the charts
might show less history since data collection for different products and reports started at
different times. Therefore, data for the full 12 months might not be available. All the reports
eventually build up to 12 months of history. Reports that show user level details show data for
the previous complete month.
What data does the template app include?
The data in the template app currently covers the same set of activity metrics available in the
Activity Reports. As Microsoft adds reports to the activity reports, they'll add them to the
template app in a future release.
How does the data in the template app
differ from the data in the usage reports?
The underlying data you see in the template app matches the data you see in the activity
reports in the Microsoft 365 admin center . The key differences are:
In the Microsoft 365 admin center, you can view data for the last 7, 30, 90, or 180 days.
The template app presents data on a monthly basis for up to 12 months.
In addition, the template app only shows user-level details for the last complete month for
users who were assigned a product license and performed an activity.
When should I use the template app and
when should I use the usage reports?
The Activity Reports are a good starting point to understand usage and adoption of Microsoft
365. The template app combines the Microsoft 365 usage data and your organization's Active
Directory information. When admins use the visual analytics capabilities of Power BI, they can

--- Page 1207 of 2193 ---
analyze the data set. This capability enables admins to not just visualize and analyze Microsoft
365 usage data, but also slice it by Active Directory properties such as departments, location,
and more. They can also create custom reports and share the insights within their organization.
How often is the data refreshed?
When you connect to the template app for the first time, it automatically populates with your
data for the previous 12 months. After that, the template app data refreshes weekly. You can
choose to modify the refresh schedule if your use of this data demands a different update
rhythm.
The back-end Microsoft 365 service refreshes data on a daily basis and provides data that is
between 5 and 8 days latent from the current date.
The Content date column in each dataset represents the freshness date of the data in the
template app.
How is an active user defined?
The definition of active user is the same as the definition of an active user in the activity
reports.
What SharePoint site collections does the
SharePoint reports include?
The current version of the template app includes file activity from SharePoint team sites and
SharePoint group sites.
Which groups does the Microsoft 365
Groups usage report include?
The current version of the template app includes usage from:
Outlook groups.
Viva Engage groups.
SharePoint groups.
It doesn't include groups related to Microsoft Teams or Planner.

--- Page 1208 of 2193 ---
When do updated versions of the template
app become available?
Major changes to the template app are released twice a year, which might include new reports
or new data. Minor changes to the reports might be released more frequently.
Can I integrate the data from the template
app into existing solutions?
You can retrieve the data in the template app through the Microsoft 365 APIs (in preview).
When they ship to production, they merge within the Microsoft Graph reporting APIs.
Are there plans to expand the template
app to show usage data from other
Microsoft products?
The feature is under consideration for future improvements. For updates, see Microsoft 365
Roadmap .
How can I pivot by company information in
Active Directory?
Company information is included in one of the Active Directory fields in the template app. You
can see it as a prebuilt filter in the Product User activity reports. It's available as a column in
the UserState table.
Can I bring in more fields from Active
Directory?
You can customize this data by connecting to the Microsoft Graph reporting APIs to pull
additional fields from Microsoft Entra ID and join to the dataset.

--- Page 1209 of 2193 ---
Can I aggregate the information in the
template app across multiple
subscriptions?
Currently, the template app supports a single subscription because the template app is
associated with the credentials you use to initially connect to it.
Can I see usage by plan, such as E1 or E3?
The template app shows usage at the product level. It provides data for the different
subscriptions assigned to users, but you can't correlate user activity to the specific subscription
assigned to a user.
Can I integrate other data sets into the
template app?
By using Power BI Desktop, you can connect to the Microsoft 365 APIs (in preview) to bring in
more data sources to combine with the template app data.
For more information, see the Customize the reports in Microsoft 365 usage analytics.
Can I see the Top Users reports for a
specific timeframe?
All user-level reports present aggregated data for the previous month.
Does the template app support
localization?
Localization isn't currently on the roadmap.
I have a specific question about the data
I'm seeing for my organization. Who can I
reach out to?

--- Page 1210 of 2193 ---
You can use the feedback button in the Microsoft 365 admin center activity overview page,
or you can open a support case to get help with the template app.
How can partners access the data?
If a partner delegates admin rights, they can connect to the template app on behalf of their
customer.
Can I hide identifiable information such as
user, group, and site names in reports?
By default, the reports hide user-specific data. To change the setting, see Display user-specific
data.

--- Page 1211 of 2193 ---
Enable Microsoft 365 usage analytics
To enable Microsoft 365 usage analytics in a Microsoft 365 US Government Community Cloud
(GCC) tenant, see Connect to Microsoft 365 Government Community Cloud (GCC) data with
Usage Analytics.
Before you begin
To get started with Microsoft 365 usage analytics, you must first make the data available in the
Microsoft 365 admin center , then select Reports > Usage and initiate the template app in
Power BI.
Get Power BI
If you don't already have Power BI, you can sign up for Power BI Pro . Select Try free to sign up
for a trial, or Buy now to get Power BI Pro.
You can also expand Products to buy a version of Power BI.
７ Note
You must have a Power BI Pro license to install, customize, and distribute a template app. For
more information, please see Prerequisites.
To share your data, both you and the people who you share the data with need a Power BI Pro
license. Or the content needs to be in a workspace in a Power BI premium service.
Enable the template app
To enable the template app, you have to be a Global administrator.
） Important
Microsoft recommends that you use roles with the fewest permissions. Using roles with the
fewest permissions helps improve security for your organization. Global Administrator is a
highly privileged role that should be limited to emergency scenarios when you can't use an

--- Page 1212 of 2193 ---
existing role. For more information, see About administrator roles in the Microsoft 365
admin center.
For more information, see about admin roles.
1. Sign in to the Microsoft 365 admin center .
2. From the left navigation bar, select … Show all, and then select Settings to expand it.
3. Under Settings, select Org Settings .
4. In the Org Settings page, select the Services tab, and then select Reports.
5. Under Microsoft 365 usage analytics in the Reports panel, select the option Make report
data available to Microsoft 365 usage analytics for Power BI.
6. Select Save.
The data collection process completes in two to 48 hours depending on the size of your tenant.
The Go to Power BI button is enabled (no longer gray) when data collection is complete. Once
complete, the app provides historical usage data at your organization level.
７ Note
The data for the "User Activity" tab is only refreshed after the 15th day of the current month
and the first day of the next month, so it will remain empty initially until the first refresh is
completed.
Start the template app
To start the template app, you have to have one of the following roles:
Report Reader.
Exchange Administrator.
Skype for Business Administrator.
SharePoint Administrator.
1. Copy the tenant ID and select Go to Power BI.
2. When you get to Power BI, sign in. Then Select Apps->Get apps from the navigation menu.

--- Page 1213 of 2193 ---
3. In the Apps tab, type Microsoft 365 in the search box and then select Microsoft 365 usage
analytics > Get it now.
4. Once the app is installed, open it by selecting the tile.
5. Select Explore app to view the app with sample data. Choose Connect to connect the app
to your organization's data.
6. Choose Connect, on the Connect to Microsoft 365 usage analytics screen, then type in the
tenant ID (without dashes) you copied in step (1), and select Next.
7. On the next screen, select OAuth2 as the Authentication method > Sign in. If you choose
any other authentication method, the connection to the template app fails.

--- Page 1214 of 2193 ---
8. After the template app is instantiated, the Microsoft 365 usage analytics dashboard is
available in Power BI on the web. The initial loading of the dashboard takes between 2 to 30
minutes.
Tenant level aggregates will be available in all reports after opting in. User-level details will only
become available around the 5th of the next calendar month after opting in. This impacts all
reports under User Activity (See Navigate and utilize the reports in Microsoft 365 usage analytics
for tips on how to view and use these reports).
Display user-specific data
Reports provide information about your organization's usage data. By default, usernames and
display names in usage reports are anonymous. Global administrators can update the settings to
reveal usernames and display names if their organization's privacy practices allow it.
1. Sign in to the Microsoft 365 admin center .
2. From the left navigation bar, select … Show all, and then select Settings to expand it.
3. Under Settings, select Org Settings .
4. In the Org Settings page, select the Services tab, and then select Reports.
5. In the Reports panel, select the option Display Concealed user, group, and site names in all
reports.
6. Select Save.
It takes a few minutes for these changes to take effect. Showing identifiable user information is a
logged event in the Microsoft Purview portal audit log.
Related content
About usage analytics.
Get the latest version of usage analytics.
Navigate and utilize the reports in Microsoft 365 usage analytics.
Last updated on 04/30/2026

--- Page 1215 of 2193 ---
Update to the latest version of Microsoft
365 usage analytics
The template app might be refreshed with new data or new visualizations several times per year.
Your existing instance continues to work during the update. However, if you want the latest
version, you need to create a new instance and apply your customizations to the new instance.
For more information, see Enable Microsoft 365 usage analytics.
Last updated on 05/01/2026

--- Page 1216 of 2193 ---
Navigate and utilize the reports in Microsoft
365 usage analytics
The dashboard provides you with a quick overview of the main usage and adoption metrics. By
selecting the top-level metrics, you can access reports that provide more details and insights.
Each report tab contains data visualizations specific to an aspect of usage and adoption for your
organization. The data collected is explained in the title of each report. Additionally, a tile appears
that contains further information about the visualizations on the report tab that you're viewing.
To get started with your reports, here are some tips:
Use the left navigation tabs or on a related metric on the Executive Summary page to
navigate to each top-level report.

To navigate to different reports within a level, use the navigation tabs at the top of each
top-level report.

Many reports contain a slicer where you can filter on the product, Microsoft Entra attribute,
or activity that you want to view. These filters can be either single-select or multi-select.

--- Page 1217 of 2193 ---


Hover data points to view a call out that contains details.

The user who instantiates the template app has the ability to customize the report to their needs.
To customize the template app:
Select Edit report at the top of the report.

Create your own visuals by using the underlying datasets.
Use Power BI Desktop to bring in your own data sources.
To share your reports, just select the share button at the top of the page.
To learn how to customize the reports, see Customizing the reports in Microsoft 365 usage
analytics.
You can find lots of additional information in the Power BI help documentation:
Power BI basic concepts
Learn about dashboard, datasets, reports, and other Power BI concepts.
Get started with Power BI

--- Page 1218 of 2193 ---
Learn the basic functionality in Power BI. Find links to how to use Power BI Desktop.
Share dashboards and reports
Learn how to share reports with your colleagues or people outside your organization. You
can also share the report or a filtered version of the report.
Last updated on 05/01/2026

--- Page 1219 of 2193 ---
Active user in Microsoft 365 usage reports
Article • 04/23/2025
Active user in usage reports
An active user of Microsoft 365 products for Microsoft 365 usage analytics and the Activity
Reports in the admin center is defined as follows.
ﾉ Expand table
Product Definition of an active user Notes
Exchange Any user who performed any of the following No calendar information is represented. It
Online actions: Mark as read, send messages, create is added in an upcoming update.
appointments, send meeting requests, accept
(as tentative) or decline meeting requests,
cancel meetings.
SharePoint Any user who interacted with a file by The active user metrics for SharePoint
Online creating, modifying, viewing, deleting, sharing Online in the Microsoft 365 Usage
internally or externally, or synchronizing to Analytics template app only reflect users
clients on any site or viewed a page on any who did file activity against a SharePoint
site. Team site or a Group site. The template
app will be updated to synchronize the
definition to the same as that on the
usage reports in the admin center.
OneDrive Any user who interacted with a file by
for creating, modifying, viewing, deleting, sharing
Business internally or externally, or synchronizing to
clients.
Viva Any user who read, posted, or liked a
Engage message on Viva Engage.
Skype for Any user who participated in a peer-to-peer
Business session (including instant messaging, audio
and video calls, application sharing, and file
transfers) or who has organized or
participated in a conference.
Microsoft Any user who activated their Microsoft 365
365 Apps for enterprise, Visio Pro, or Project Pro
subscription on at least one device.
Microsoft Any group member that has mailbox activity This definition will be enhanced with
365 Groups (if a message was sent to the group) group site file activity and Viva Engage
group activity. For example, file activity on

--- Page 1220 of 2193 ---
Product Definition of an active user Notes
group site and message posted to Viva
Engage group associated with the group.
This data is currently not available in the
Microsoft 365 Usage Analytics template
app
Microsoft Any user who participated in chat messages,
Teams private chat messages, calls, meetings, or
other activity. Other activity is defined as the
number of other team activities by the user
some of which include, and not limited to:
liking messages, apps, working on files,
searching, following teams and channel and
favoriting them.
Adoption Metrics
Microsoft 365 usage analytics contains more adoption metrics related to active users to show
adoption of the products over time. These metrics are valid for the month, year, and product
selected and are defined as follows.
ﾉ Expand table
Metric Description
EnabledUsers Number of users enabled to use the product in the month.
ActiveUsers Number of users active in the month.
MoMReturningUsers Number of users active in the month that were also active in the preceding
month.
FirstTimeUsers Number of users active in the month that never used the service before.
CumulativeActiveUsers Number of users active in the month plus any preceding month.
ActiveUsers(%) Percent of users, rounded to the nearest tenth, active in the month compared
to the number of users enabled in that month.
MoMReturningUsers(%) Percent of users, rounded to the nearest tenth, active in the month that were
also active in the preceding month compared to the number of active users.
MoMReturningUsers, FirstTimeUsers, & CumulativeActiveUsers were reset starting January 1,
2018 with the inclusion of Microsoft Teams.

--- Page 1221 of 2193 ---
Customize the reports in Microsoft 365
usage analytics
Microsoft 365 usage analytics provides a dashboard in Power BI that offers insights into how
users adopt and use Microsoft 365. The dashboard is just a starting point to interact with the
usage data. You can customize the reports for more personalized insights.
You can also use Power BI Desktop to further customize your reports by connecting them to
other data sources to gain richer insights about your business.
Customizing reports in the browser
The following two examples show how to modify an existing visual and how to create a new
visual.
Modify an existing visual
This example shows how to modify the Activation tab within the Activation/Licensing report.
1. Within the Activation/Licensing report, select the Activation tab.
2. Enter the edit mode by choosing the Edit button on the top through the button.
3. On the top right, choose Duplicate this page.

--- Page 1222 of 2193 ---
4. In the bottom right, choose any of the bar charts that show the count of users activating
based on the OS such as Android, iOS, Mac, and more.
5. In the Visualizations area to the right, select the X next to Mac Count to remove it from the
visual.
Create a new visual
The following example shows how to create a new visual to track new Viva Engage users on a
monthly basis.
1. Go to the Product Usage report by using the left navigation and select the Viva Engage tab.
2. Switch to edit mode by choosing and Edit.
3. At the bottom of the page, select the to create a new page.
4. In the Visualizations area to the right, choose the Stacked bar chart (top row, first from
left).

--- Page 1223 of 2193 ---
5. To make the visualization larger, select the bottom right of that visualization and drag to
resize it.
6. In the Fields area to the right, expand the Calendar table.
7. Drag MonthName to the fields area, directly below the Axis heading in the Visualizations
area.
8. In the Fields area to the right, expand the TenantProductUsage table.
9. Drag FirstTimeUsers to the fields area, directly below the Value heading.
10. Drag Product to the Filters area, directly below the Visual level filters heading.
11. In the Filter Type area that appears, select the Viva Engage check box.

--- Page 1224 of 2193 ---
12. Just below the list of visualizations, choose the Format icon .
13. Expand Title and change the Title Text value to First-Time Viva Engage Users by Month.
14. Change the Text Size value to 12.
15. Change the title of the new page by editing the name of the page on bottom right.
16. Save the report by selecting Reading View on top and then Save.
Customizing the reports in Power BI Desktop
For most customers, modifying the reports and chart visuals in Power BI web is sufficient.
However, some customers might need to join this data with other data sources to gain richer
insights contextual to their own business. In this case, they can customize and build other reports
by using Power BI Desktop. You can download Power BI Desktop for free.
Use the reporting APIs
You can start by connecting directly to the ODATA reporting APIs from Microsoft 365 that power
these reports.
1. Go to Get data > Other > ODATA Feed > Connect.
2. In the URL window, enter https://reports.office.com/pbi/v1.0/<tenantid>.
７ Note

--- Page 1225 of 2193 ---
The reporting APIs are in preview and are subject to change until they go into
production.
3. When prompted to authenticate, enter your Microsoft 365 (organization or school) admin
credentials.
See the Microsoft 365 Usage Analytics Overview FAQ for more information about who is
allowed to access the Microsoft 365 Adoption template app reports.
4. Once you authorize the connection, you see the Navigator window that shows the available
datasets.
Select all and choose Load.
This action downloads the data into your Power BI Desktop. Save this file and then you can
start creating the reports you need.

--- Page 1226 of 2193 ---
Use the Microsoft 365 usage analytics template
You can also use the Power BI template file that corresponds to the Microsoft 365 usage analytics
reports as a starting point to connect to the data. The advantage of using the pbit file is that it
already has the connection string established. You can also take advantage of all the custom
measures that are created on top of the data that the base schema returns and build on it further.
You can download the Power BI template file from the Microsoft Download Center . After you
download the Power BI template file, follow these steps to get started:
1. Open the pbit file.
2. Enter your tenant ID value in the dialog.
3. Enter your admin credentials to authenticate to Microsoft 365 when prompted.
Once authorized, the data is refreshed in the Power BI file.
Data load might take some time. When it's complete, you can save the file as a .pbix file and
continue to customize the reports or bring another data source into this report.
4. Follow Getting started with Power BI documentation to understand how to build reports,
publish them to the Power BI service, and share with your organization. Following this path
for customization and sharing might require more Power BI licenses. See Power BI licensing
guidance for details.
Last updated on 05/04/2026

--- Page 1227 of 2193 ---
Connect to Microsoft 365 Government
Community Cloud (GCC) data with
Usage Analytics
Use the following procedures to connect to your data with the Microsoft 365 Usage Analytics
report in a Microsoft 365 Government Community Cloud (GCC) tenant.
７ Note
These instructions are specifically for Microsoft 365 GCC tenants and aren't applicate to GCC
High and DOD.
Before you begin
To initially configure Microsoft 365 Usage Analytics:
You must be a Microsoft 365 Global Administrator to enable data collection.
） Important
Microsoft recommends that you use roles with the fewest permissions. Using roles with the
fewest permissions helps improve security for your organization. Global Administrator is a
highly privileged role that should be limited to emergency scenarios when you can't use an
existing role. For more information, see About administrator roles in the Microsoft 365
admin center.
You must have the Power BI Desktop application to use the template file.
You must have a Power BI Pro license or Premium capacity to publish and view the report.
Step 1: Make your organization's data available for the
Microsoft 365 Usage Analytics report
1. In the Microsoft 365 admin center, expand the navigation menu, select Reports, then select
Usage.

--- Page 1228 of 2193 ---
2. On the Usage Reports page, in the Microsoft 365 Usage Analytics section, select Get
Started.
3. Under Enable Power BI for usage analytics, select Make organizational usage data
available to Microsoft usage analytics for Power BI, and then select Save.
This starts a process to make your organizations data accessible for this report, and you
might see a message that states We're getting your data ready for Microsoft 365 usage
analytics. This process can take 24 hours to complete.
4. When your organizations data is ready, refreshing the page shows a message stating that
your data is now available, and provides your tenant ID number. You must use the tenant ID
in a later step when you attempt to connect to your tenant data.
） Important
When your data is available, don't select Go to Power BI, which takes you to the Power
BI Marketplace. The template app for this report required by GCC tenants isn't available

--- Page 1229 of 2193 ---
in the Power BI Marketplace.
Step 2: Download the Power BI template, connect to
your data, and publish the report
Microsoft 365 GCC users can download and use the Microsoft 365 Usage Analytics report
template file to connect to their data. You would need Power BI Desktop to open and use the
template file.
７ Note
Currently, a template app for the Microsoft 365 Usage Analytics report isn't available for GCC
tenants in the Power BI Marketplace.
1. After downloading the Power BI template , open it using Power BI Desktop.
2. When prompted for a TenantID, enter the tenant ID you received when you prepared your
organization's data for this report in step 1. Then select Load. It can take several minutes for
your data to load.
3. When loading completes, your report is displayed, and you see an executive summary of
your data.

--- Page 1230 of 2193 ---
4. Save your changes to the report.
5. Select Publish in the Power BI Desktop menu to publish the report to the Power BI Online
service where it can be viewed. This requires either a Power BI Pro license or Power BI
Premium capacity. As part of the publish process, you must select a destination to publish
to an available workspace in the Power BI Online Service.
Related content
About usage analytics
Get the latest version of usage analytics
Navigate and utilize the reports in Microsoft 365 usage analytics
Last updated on 05/06/2026

--- Page 1231 of 2193 ---
Microsoft 365 usage analytics data model
Summarize this article for me
Data for the Microsoft 365 usage analytics tables
The Microsoft 365 usage analytics data model connects to an API that exposes
multidimensional data about service usage and adoption. The APIs that Microsoft 365 usage
analytics uses to generate its data come from various generally available Graph APIs. The
Microsoft 365 usage analytics API itself isn't generally available.
７ Note
For more information, see Working with Microsoft 365 usage reports in Microsoft
Graph.
This API provides information about the monthly trend of usage of the various Microsoft 365
services. For the exact data returned by the API, see the table in the following section.
Data tables returned by the Microsoft 365
reporting API
ﾉ Expand table
Table name Information in the table Date range
Tenant Product Monthly totals of: Monthly aggregated data for a
Usage Enabled users. rolling 12‑month period, including
Active users. the current partial month.
Month-over-month retained users.
First-time users.
Cumulative active users.
Tenant Product Monthly totals of activities and active user Monthly aggregated data for a
Activity counts for product activities. rolling 12‑month period, including
the current partial month.
For more information about the activities
returned in this table, see Active user in
Microsoft 365 usage reports.
Tenant Office Number of Microsoft Office subscriptions End‑of‑month state data for a
Licenses assigned to users. rolling 12‑month period, including

--- Page 1232 of 2193 ---
Table name Information in the table Date range
the current partial month.
Tenant Mailbox Mailbox data, including: End‑of‑month state data for a
Usage Total mailbox count. rolling 12‑month period, including
Storage usage. the current partial month.
Tenant Client Number of users actively using specific Monthly aggregated data for a
Usage clients or devices to connect to: rolling 12‑month period, including
Exchange Online. the current partial month.
Teams.
Viva Engage.
Tenant SharePoint site data, including: End‑of‑month state data for a
SharePoint Usage Total sites (Teams or Groups sites). rolling 12‑month period, including
Number of documents. the current partial month.
File count by activity type.
Storage used.
Tenant OneDrive OneDrive account data, including: End‑of‑month state data for a
Usage Number of accounts. rolling 12‑month period, including
Number of documents across the current partial month.
OneDrives.
Storage used.
File count by activity type.
Tenant Microsoft Microsoft 365 Groups usage data, including: End‑of‑month state data for a
365 Groups Mailbox. rolling 12‑month period, including
Usage SharePoint. the current partial month.
Viva Engage.
Tenant Office Office subscription activation data, including: End‑of‑month state data for a
Activation Total activations. rolling 12‑month period, including
Activations per device (Android, iOS, the current partial month.
Mac, PC).
Activations by service plan (for
example, Microsoft 365 Apps for
enterprise, Visio, Project).
User State User metadata, including: Users who had a license assigned
Display name. during the last complete month.
Assigned products.
Location.
Department.
Title.

--- Page 1233 of 2193 ---
Table name Information in the table Date range
Company.
Includes users who were assigned a license
during the last complete month. Each user
has a unique user ID.
User Activity Per-user activity data for licensed users. Users who performed an activity in
any service during the last complete
For more information about the activities month.
returned in this table, see Active user in
Microsoft 365 usage reports.
To see the detailed information for each data table, see the following sections.
Data table - User State
The User State table provides user-level details for all users who have a license assigned during
the last complete month. It brings in data from Microsoft Entra ID.
ﾉ Expand table
Name Description
UserId Unique user ID that represents a user and enables joining with other data tables
within the data set.
Timeframe Month value for which this table has data.
UPN User principal name (UPN) that uniquely identifies the user to join with other
external data sources.
DisplayName User's display name.
IDType Account user used to sign in. Values can be:
1 if the user is a Viva Engage user who connects using their Viva Engage
ID.
0 if the user connects to Viva Engage using their Microsoft 365 ID.
HasLicenseEXO Set to true if the user is assigned a license and enabled to use Exchange on the
last day of the month.
HasLicenseODB Set to true if the user is assigned a license and enabled to use OneDrive on the
last day of the month.
HasLicenseSPO Set to true if the user is assigned a license and enabled to use SharePoint on the
last day of the month.

--- Page 1234 of 2193 ---
Name Description
HasLicenseYAM Set to true if the user is assigned a license and enabled to use Viva Engage on
the last day of the month.
HasLicenseSFB Set to true if the user is assigned a license and enabled to use Teams on the last
day of the month.
HasLicenseTeams Set to true if the user is assigned a license and enabled to use Microsoft Teams
on the last day of the month.
Company Company data represented in Microsoft Entra ID for this user.
Department Department data represented in Microsoft Entra ID for this user.
LocationCity City data represented in Microsoft Entra ID for this user.
LocationCountry Country/region data represented in Microsoft Entra ID for this user.
LocationState State data represented in Microsoft Entra ID for this user.
LocationOffice User's office.
Title Title data represented in Microsoft Entra ID for this user.
Deleted True if the user was deleted from Microsoft 365 in the last complete month.
DeletedDate Date when the user was deleted from Microsoft 365.
YAM_State State of the user in the Viva Engage system. Values can be:
Active.
Deleted.
Suspended.
YAM_ActivationDate Date the user entered the state of being active in Viva Engage.
YAM_DeletionDate Date the user entered the state of being deleted in Viva Engage.
YAM_SuspensionDate Date the user entered the state of being suspended in Viva Engage.
Data table - User Activity
The User Activity table contains data about each user who had an activity in any of the services
in the previous month.
ﾉ Expand table

--- Page 1235 of 2193 ---
Name Description
UserID Unique user ID that represents a user and enables joining with other
data tables within the data set.
Timeframe Month value for which this table represents data.
EXO_EmailSent Number of emails sent.
EXO_EmailReceived Number of emails received.
EXO_EmailRead Number of email read activities performed by the user. Includes:
Multiple reads of the same email.
Emails received in previous periods.
EXO_AppointmentCreated Number of appointments created.
EXO_MeetingAccepted Number of meetings accepted.
EXO_MeetingCancelled Number of meetings canceled.
EXO_MeetingDeclined Number of meetings declined.
EXO_MeetingSent Number of meetings sent.
ODB_FileViewedModified Number of files the user interacted with on any OneDrive. Includes the
following actions:
Create.
Update.
Delete.
View.
Download.
ODB_FileSynched Number of files the user synchronized on any OneDrive.
ODB_FileSharedInternally Number of files shared internally from any OneDrive including sharing
with users within groups.
ODB_FileSharedExternally Number of files the user shared externally from any OneDrive.
ODB_AccessedByOwner Number of OneDrive sites the user interacted with that they own.
ODB_AccessedByOthers Number of OneDrive sites owned by another user that the user
interacted with.
SPO_GroupFileViewedModified Number of files the user interacted with on any group site.
SPO_GroupFileSynched Number of files the user synchronized on any group site.
SPO_GroupFileSharedInternally Number of files shared internally from any group site including sharing
within groups.

--- Page 1236 of 2193 ---
Name Description
SPO_GroupFileSharedExternally Number of files the user shared externally from any group site.
SPO_GroupAccessedByOwner Number of group sites the user interacted with that they own.
SPO_GroupAccessedByOthers Number of group sites owned by another user that the user interacted
with.
SPO_OtherFileViewedModified Number of files the user interacted with on any other site.
SPO_OtherFileSynched Number of files the user synchronized from any other site.
SPO_OtherFileSharedInternally Number of files shared internally from any other site including sharing
within groups.
SPO_OtherFileSharedExternally Number of files the user shared externally from any other site.
SPO_OtherAccessedByOwner Number of other sites the user interacted with that they own.
SPO_OtherAccessedByOthers Number of other sites owned by another user that the user interacted
with.
SPO_TeamFileViewedModified Number of files the user interacted with on any team site.
SPO_TeamFileSynched Number of files the user synchronized from any team site.
SPO_TeamFileSharedInternally Number of files shared internally from any team site including sharing
within groups.
SPO_TeamFileSharedExternally Number of files the user shared externally from any team site.
SPO_TeamAccessedByOwner Number of team sites the user interacted with that they own.
SPO_TeamAccessedByOthers Number of team sites owned by another user that the user interacted
with.
Teams_ChatMessages Number of chat messages sent.
Teams_ChannelMessage Number of messages posted to channels.
Teams_CallParticipate Number of calls the user participated in.
Teams_MeetingParticipate Number of meetings the user joined.

--- Page 1237 of 2193 ---
Name Description
Teams_HasOtherAction Boolean value indicating whether the user performed other actions in
Microsoft Teams. The user is considered active but has a zero value for
the following items:
Chat Messages.
1:1 calls.
Channel Messages.
Total Meetings.
Meetings organized.
YAM_MessagePost Number of Viva Engage messages the user posted.
YAM_MessageLiked Number of Viva Engage messages the user liked.
YAM_MessageRead Number of Viva Engage messages the user read.
SFB_P2PSummary Number of peer-to-peer sessions the user took part in.
SFB_ConfOrgSummary Number of conference sessions the user organized.
SFB_ConfPartSummary Number of conference sessions the user participated in.
Data table - Tenant Product Usage
The Tenant Product Usage table provides month-over-month adoption data in terms of the
following types of user for each product within Microsoft 365:
Enabled.
Active.
Returning
First-time users.
The Microsoft 365 values represent active usage in any of the products.
ﾉ Expand table
Name Description
Product Name of products for which the usage information is summarized.
The Microsoft 365 value represents activity across any of the products.
Timeframe Month value.
One row per product per month.
Includes the last 12 months, including the current partial month.

--- Page 1238 of 2193 ---
Name Description
EnabledUsers Number of users enabled to use the product for the timeframe value.
Users enabled for any portion of the month are counted.
ActiveUsers Number of users who performed an intentional activity in the product for the
timeframe value.
A user is counted as active if they performed one of the key product
activities.
Key activities are listed in the Tenant Product Activity table.
CumulativeActiveUsers Number of users enabled to use the product.
Includes users who used the product at least once since data collection
started.
Calculated up to and including the timeframe month.
MoMReturningUsers Number of users active in the timeframe month.
Users must also be active during the previous month.
FirstTimeUsers Number of users who became active in the timeframe month for the first time.
Activity is measured from the start of data collection in the new usage
system.
Once a user is counted as a first-time user, the user is never counted
again.
Content Date If the timeframe is:
The current month, the latest date with available data.
A previous month, the last date of that month.
Data table - Tenant Product Activity
The Tenant Product Activity table provides monthly totals of activity and active user count for
various activities within the products.
ﾉ Expand table
Name Description
Timeframe Month value.
One row per product per month.
Includes the last 12 months, including the current partial month.
Product Name of the product within Microsoft 365 for which usage data is available.

--- Page 1239 of 2193 ---
Name Description
Activity Name of the activity in a product that is used to showcase active use of the
product.
ActivityCount Total number of actions counted for each activity across all active users.
For SharePoint and OneDrive activities, this value represents the number
of distinct documents users interacted with.
ActiveUserCount Number of users who performed the activity within the product.
TotalDurationInMinute Total duration, in minutes, across all active users.
Applies to audio or video sessions in applicable Microsoft Teams
activities.
Content Date If the timeframe is:
The current month, the latest date with available data.
A previous month, the last date of that month.
Data table - Tenant Mailbox Usage
The Tenant Mailbox Usage table shows summary data for all licensed Exchange Online users
with a user mailbox. It shows the end of month state for all user mailboxes. You can't add the
data in this table across multiple months. The latest month's data in this table shows the most
recent state.
ﾉ Expand table
Name Description
TotalMailboxes Number of user mailboxes for the Microsoft 365 subscription.
IssueWarningQuota Total quota for issuing warnings across all user mailboxes.
ProhibitSendQuota Total quota for prohibiting send actions across all user mailboxes.
ProhibitSendReceiveQuota Total quota for prohibiting send and receive actions across all user
mailboxes.
TotalItemBytes Amount of storage used across all user mailboxes, in bytes.
MailboxesNoWarning Number of user mailboxes that are under the storage warning
limit.
MailboxesIssueWarning Number of user mailboxes that were issued a storage quota
warning.

--- Page 1240 of 2193 ---
Name Description
MailboxesExceedSendQuota Number of user mailboxes that exceeded the send quota.
MailboxesExceedSendReceiveQuota Number of user mailboxes that exceeded the send and receive
quota.
DeletedMailboxes Number of user mailboxes deleted in the timeframe.
Timeframe Month value.
Content Date If the timeframe is:
The current month, the latest date with available data.
A previous month, the last date of that month.
Data table - Tenant Client Usage
The Tenant Client Usage table provides month-over-month summary data about the clients
that users use to connect to:
Exchange Online.
Microsoft Teams.
Viva Engage.
This table doesn't yet have client use data for SharePoint and OneDrive.
ﾉ Expand table
Name Description
Product Name of the product within Microsoft 365 for which client usage data is available.
ClientId Name of each device used to connect to the product.
UserCount Number of users who used each client for each product.
Timeframe Month value.
Content Date If the timeframe is:
The current month, the latest date with available data.
A previous month, the last date of that month.
Data table - Tenant SharePoint Usage

--- Page 1241 of 2193 ---
The Tenant SharePoint Usage table shows month-over-month summary data about the usage
or activity of SharePoint sites. The data in this table only covers Team Sites and Group sites and
represents the end‑of‑month state of SharePoint sites:
The values reflect the final totals at the end of the month, not interim activity.
During the month, users might create, delete, and add files.
Only the state at the end of the month is recorded.
In the following example, the resulting values shown are seven documents and 5 MB, which
represent the end‑of‑month state:
A user creates five documents that use 10 MB of storage.
The user then deletes some files and adds others.
At the end of the month, the site contains seven documents that use 5 MB of storage.
To avoid duplicate counts of aggregations, this table is hidden. It's used as a source to create
two reference tables.
ﾉ Expand table
Name Description
SiteType Site type value. Possible values are:
Any: Represents either team or group sites.
Team.
Group.
TotalSites Number of sites that existed at the end of the timeframe.
DocumentCount Total number of documents that existed on the site at the end of the
timeframe.
DiskUsed Total storage used, summed across all sites at the end of the timeframe.
ActivityType Number of sites that recorded specific types of file activity. Represents
any file activity that was performed. For example:
Any activity.
Active files.
Files shared externally.
Files shared internally.
Files synchronized.

--- Page 1242 of 2193 ---
Name Description
SitesWithOwnerActivities Number of active sites where the site owner performed a file activity on
their own site.
The site owner is the person responsible for the site.
The site owner can be identified using the PowerShell command
get-sposite.
SitesWithNonOwnerActivities Number of active sites summed up for the month where users other than
the site owner performed a file activity.
The site owner is the person responsible for the site.
The site owner can be identified using the PowerShell command
get-sposite.
ActivityTotalSites Number of sites that recorded any activity during the timeframe.
Sites deleted by the end of the timeframe are still counted if they
had activity earlier in the timeframe.
Timeframe Date value.
Used as a many‑to‑one relationship with the Calendar table.
Content Date If the timeframe is:
The current month, the latest date with available data.
A previous month, the last date of that month.
Data table - Tenant OneDrive Usage
The Tenant OneDrive Usage table provides data about the OneDrive accounts. For example:
Number of accounts.
Number of documents across OneDrive accounts.
Storage used.
File count by activity type.
The table also shows the end‑of‑month state of OneDrive accounts:
The values reflect the final state at the end of the month, not changes made during the
month.
Users might create, delete, and add files throughout the month.
Only the end‑of‑month totals are recorded in this table.
In the following example, the table records seven files and 5 MB, which represent the
end‑of‑month state:

--- Page 1243 of 2193 ---
A user creates five documents that use 10 MB of storage.
During the month, the user deletes some files and adds others.
By the end of the month, the account contains seven files that use 5 MB of storage.
ﾉ Expand table
Name Description
SiteType Value is OneDrive.
TotalSites Number of OneDrive accounts that exist at the end of the timeframe.
DocumentCount Total number of documents that exist across all OneDrive accounts at the
end of the timeframe.
DiskUsed Total storage used, summed across all OneDrive accounts at the end of
the timeframe.
ActivityType Number of accounts that recorded specific types of file activity. For
example:
Any activity.
Active files.
Files shared externally.
Files shared internally.
Files synchronized.
SitesWithOwnerActivities Number of active OneDrive accounts where the account owner
performed a file activity on their own account.
SitesWithNonOwnerActivities Number of OneDrive accounts with file activity by users other than the
owner.
ActivityTotalSites Number of OneDrive accounts that recorded any activity during the
timeframe.
Accounts deleted by the end of the timeframe are still counted if
they had activity earlier in the timeframe.
Timeframe Date value.
Used as a many‑to‑one relationship with the Calendar table.
Content Date If the timeframe is:
The current month, the latest date with available data.
A previous month, the last date of that month.
Data table - Tenant Microsoft 365 Groups Usage

--- Page 1244 of 2193 ---
The Tenant Microsoft 365 Groups Usage table provides data about how Microsoft 365 Groups
is used across the organization.
ﾉ Expand table
Name Description
TimeFrame Month value. There's one row per product per month for the
last 12 months, including the current partial month.
GroupType Type of group (private, public, or any).
TotalGroups Number of groups in each group type.
ActiveGroups Number of active groups.
MBX_TotalGroups Number of mailbox groups.
MBX_ActiveGroups Number of active mailbox groups.
MBX_TotalActivities Number of mailbox activities.
MBX_TotalItems Number of mailbox items.
MBX_StorageUsed Quantity of mailbox storage used.
SPO_TotalGroups Number of SharePoint groups.
SPO_ActiveGroups Number of active SharePoint groups.
SPO_FileAccessedActiveGroups Number of SharePoint groups that have file accessed activities.
SPO_FileSyncedActiveGroups Number of SharePoint groups that have file synchronized
activities.
SPO_FileSharedInternallyActiveGroups Number of SharePoint groups that shared activities internally,
or with groups that might include external users.
SPO_FileSharedExternallyActiveGroups Number of SharePoint groups that shared activities externally.
SPO_TotalActivities Number of SharePoint activities.
SPO_FileAccessedActivities Number of SharePoint file accessed activities.
SPO_FileSyncedActivities Number of SharePoint file synchronized activities.
SPO_FileSharedInternallyActivities Number of SharePoint file shared activities internally, or with
groups that might include external members.
SPO_FileSharedExternallyActivities Number of SharePoint file shared activities externally.
SPO_TotalFiles Number of SharePoint files.

--- Page 1245 of 2193 ---
Name Description
SPO_ActiveFiles Number of active SharePoint files.
SPO_StorageUsed Quantity of SharePoint storage used.
YAM_TotalGroups Number of Viva Engage groups.
YAM_ActiveGroups Number of active Viva Engage groups.
YAM_LikedActiveGroups Number of Viva Engage groups with like activity.
YAM_PostedActiveGroups Number of Viva Engage groups with post activity.
YAM_ReadActiveGroups Number of Viva Engage groups with read activity.
YAM_TotalActivities Number of Viva Engage activities.
YAM_LikedActivities Number of Viva Engage like activities.
YAM_PostedActivities Number of Viva Engage post activities.
YAM_ReadActivities Number of Viva Engage read activities.
Data table - Tenant Office Licenses
The Tenant Office Licenses table provides month-over-month summary data about the license
assignment for users.
ﾉ Expand table
Name Description
LicenseName Name of the license.
AssignedCount Number of assigned licenses.
Timeframe Month value.
Data table - Tenant Office Activation
The Tenant Office Activation table provides data about the number of Office subscription
activations across the service plans. For example:
Microsoft 365 Apps for enterprises.
Visio.
Project.

--- Page 1246 of 2193 ---
It also provides data about the number of activations per device (Android, iOS, Mac, or PC).
ﾉ Expand table
Name Description
ServicePlanName Name of the service plan.
TotalEnabled Number of users enabled for the service plan by the end of the timeframe.
TotalActivatedUsers Number of users who activated the service plan by the end of the timeframe.
AndroidCount Number of activations for the service plan on Android devices by the end of the
timeframe.
iOSCount Number of activations for the service plan on iOS devices by the end of the
timeframe.
MacCount Number of activations for the service plan on Mac devices by the end of the
timeframe.
PcCount Number of activations for the service plan on PC devices by the end of the
timeframe.
WinRtCount Number of activations for the service plan on Windows Mobile devices by the end
of the timeframe.
Timeframe Date value.
Used as a many-to-one relationship with the Calendar table.
Content Date If the timeframe is:
The current month, the latest date with available data.
A previous month, the last date of that month.
Last updated on 03/12/2026

--- Page 1247 of 2193 ---
Troubleshooting Microsoft 365 usage
analytics
10/11/2025
Explore the following list of error messages to get help with the most common issues with
Microsoft 365 usage analytics.
We are unable to process your request. You have to
first subscribe to this data from the Microsoft 365
admin center
Error Code: 422
Where you will see this message: In Power BI when you're connecting to the Microsoft 365
Usage Analytics template app, or when directly calling the Microsoft 365 Reporting APIs.
Cause: Before you can connect to the app, you have to subscribe to the data from the
Microsoft 365 admin center. If this step isn't done first, you cannot connect to the template
app, even if you provide your Microsoft 365 tenant ID.
To fix this error: To subscribe to the data, go to the admin center > Reports > Usage and
locate the Microsoft 365 usage analytics tile on the main dashboard page. Select the Get
started button and then in the Reports pane that opens, turn the Make data available to
Microsoft 365 usage analytics for Power BI setting on and Save.
We are processing your data
Where you will see this message: In the Microsoft 365 usage analytics tile, on the Usage
dashboard in the Microsoft 365 admin center.
Cause: When you opt in to seeing data in the template app from the Microsoft 365 admin
center, the Microsoft 365 system starts generating historical usage data for your organization.
Depending on the size of your tenant, this step could take anywhere between 2 hours to 48
hours.
To fix this: Just be patient, but if the message doesn't change to Your data is ready after 3
days, [contact Microsoft 365 for business support](Get support](../get-help-support.md).

--- Page 1248 of 2193 ---
We are unable to process your request at this time.
We are still preparing the data for your
organization
Error Code: 423
Where you will see this message: In Power BI, when you're connecting to the Microsoft 365
Usage Analytics template app or when directly calling the Microsoft 365 Reporting APIs.
Cause: When you opt in to seeing data in the template app from the admin center, the
Microsoft 365 system starts generating historical usage data for your organization. Depending
on the size of your tenant, this step could take anywhere between two hours to 48 hours.
To fix this: Just be patient, but if the message doesn't change to Your data is ready even 3 days
since initiation, contact Microsoft 365 for business support.
The tenant ID you provided is not in the correct
format
Error Code: 400
Where you will see this message: In Power BI, when you're connecting to the Microsoft 365
Usage Analytics template app or when directly calling the Microsoft 365 Reporting APIs.
Cause: The tenant ID is a guid and has to be in the format of xxxxxxxx-xxxx-xxxx-xxxx-
xxxxxxxxxxxx. If you enter any other string in the tenant input box, you get this error.
To fix this error: Go to the admin center > Reports > Usage and locate the Microsoft 365
usage analytics tile on the main dashboard page. The tenant ID is listed on the tile. You can
copy it from here and paste it in the dialog box for connecting to the template app.
The tenant ID you provided is not recognized by
our system
Error Code: 404
Where you will see this message: In Power BI when you're connecting to the Microsoft 365
Usage Analytics template app or when directly calling the Microsoft 365 Reporting APIs.
Cause: The tenant ID you provided isn't valid or doesn't exist.

--- Page 1249 of 2193 ---
To fix this error: Go to the admin center > Reports > Usage and locate the Microsoft 365
usage analytics tile on the main dashboard page. The tenant ID is listed on the tile. You can
copy it from here and paste it in the dialog box for connecting to the template app.
Please re-enter your credentials to sign in to Power
BI again
Error Code: 302
Where you will see this message: In Power BI when you're connecting to the Microsoft 365
Usage Analytics template app or when directly calling the Microsoft 365 Reporting APIs.
Cause: The authorization code failed and can require you to enter your credentials again.
To fix this error: Sign out of Power BI, and then sign in again.
You do not have the right authorization to access
to this data. To be able to gain access to the data
from this service you need to be either a global
admin or any one of the product admins
Error Code: 403
Where you will see this message: In Power BI when you're connecting to the Microsoft 365
Usage Analytics template app or when directly calling the Microsoft 365 Reporting APIs.
Cause: The authorization code failed because the user who tried connecting to the template
app doesn't have the right level of authorization to access this data.
To fix this error: Provide the credentials of a user who is either an Exchange admin, Skype for
Business admin, SharePoint admin, Global reader, or Report reader to connect to the
template app. See About admin roles for more information.
） Important
Microsoft recommends that you use roles with the fewest permissions. This helps improve
security for your organization. Global Administrator is a highly privileged role that should
be limited to emergency scenarios when you can't use an existing role.

--- Page 1250 of 2193 ---
Refresh failed
Where you will see this message: Email from Power BI or failed status in the refresh history.
Cause: Sometimes the credentials of the user who connected to the template app are reset,
and not updated in the connection settings of the template app causing the user to see refresh
failure errors.
To fix this error: In Power BI, find the dataset corresponding to the Microsoft 365 Usage
Analytics template app, select schedule refresh and provide your admin credentials.
If that doesn't work, clear the cache, and re-create the template app.

--- Page 1251 of 2193 ---
Microsoft 365 support integration with
ServiceNow configuration overview
） Important
Microsoft 365 support integration with ServiceNow is retired, and the service will be
completely shut down on May 30, 2025. If you installed the integration, take necessary steps
to remove it before May 30, 2025.
The following article applies to the Microsoft 365 support integration app with a minimum
version of 2.0.0.
For version 1.0.11 and earlier, see Microsoft 365 support integration overview v1.
Microsoft 365 support integration enables you to integrate Microsoft 365 help, support, and
service health with your ServiceNow instances. You can research Microsoft known and reported
issues, resolve incidents, complete tasks by using Microsoft recommended solutions, and, if
necessary, escalate to Microsoft human-assisted support.
For the Microsoft 365 support integration app, go to the ServiceNow Store .
７ Note
This app is not supported in regulated or restricted environments.
This app is only supported in English.
Key features
These are the key features you'll get with the Microsoft 365 support integration app in
ServiceNow:
Service Health Incidents: Information about known Microsoft service health incidents,
including user impact, scope, status, and next expected update. Using machine learning,
ServiceNow incidents are matched to Microsoft service health incidents based on the short
description field.

--- Page 1252 of 2193 ---

Recommended solutions: Descriptions of tasks and incidents are used to recommend
precise targeted solutions and relevant articles from Microsoft powered by machine
learning. You can also use Search to find other solutions, if needed.

Microsoft service request: Escalate issues to Microsoft support agents and receive status
updates for your request. With an updated workflow, you can now create a service request
by adding your preferred title, description, and contact information similar to what is found
in the Microsoft 365 admin portal.

--- Page 1253 of 2193 ---


Prerequisites
Permissions requirements
To proceed with this guide, make sure that the following permissions are available and
configured for your environments during the entire process:
Microsoft Entra admin who can create Microsoft Entra Applications
ServiceNow admin
Microsoft 365 tenant admin

--- Page 1254 of 2193 ---
Configuration highlights
To set up Microsoft 365 support integration:
Register application in Microsoft Entra ID for authentication of both outbound and inbound
API calls.
Create ServiceNow entities with Microsoft Entra Application for both outbound and
inbound data flow.
Integrate ServiceNow instance with Microsoft support through the Microsoft 365 admin
portal.
Application dependencies in your ServiceNow environments
Permissions required:
oauth_entity
oauth_entity_profile
After the Microsoft 365 support integration app has been installed, two application cross-scope
accesses are created. If they're not created successfully, create them manually.
Set up the integration

--- Page 1255 of 2193 ---
After you've downloaded the app, go to the Microsoft 365 setup wizard in your ServiceNow
environment to complete the setup process.
To open the setup wizard, type Microsoft 365 in the ServiceNow navigator and select Setup.
If you want to get started without setting up the Microsoft 365 support integration app, you
can select the option to Continue without any setup. This option continues to provide basic
recommended solutions.
To set up the application with full functionality, select Start setup, and then follow the
instructions in Integrate Microsoft 365 with ServiceNow Virtual Agent.
） Important
The Microsoft 365 support integration app occasionally prompts users for feedback about
the app. If you don't want users to be prompted for feedback, turn off this functionality in
the app settings. For more information about Microsoft feedback policies, see Learn about
Microsoft feedback for your organization. To change the feedback settings, follow the steps
in the installation process.
Last updated on 04/28/2025

--- Page 1256 of 2193 ---
Configure authentication for Microsoft 365
support integration with ServiceNow
） Important
Microsoft 365 support integration with ServiceNow is retired, and the service will be
completely shut down on May 30, 2025. If you installed the integration, take necessary steps
to remove it before May 30, 2025.
Prerequisites
These prerequisite steps are required to set up Microsoft 365 support integration.
Microsoft Entra administrator
1. [Microsoft Entra Admin] Create Microsoft Entra Application for Outbound under your
Microsoft 365 tenant.
a. Log on to the Azure Portal with your Microsoft 365 tenant credentials and go to the App
registrations page to create a new application.
b. Select Accounts in this organizational directory only ({Microsoft-365-tenant-name}
only - Single tenant) and select Register.

--- Page 1257 of 2193 ---

2. Go to Authentication and select Add a platform. Select the Web option and enter the
redirect URL: https://{your-servicenow-instance``}.service-now.com/oauth_redirect.do

3. Get the Application Client ID and create a Client secret and get that value.
4. [ServiceNow Admin] Set up the Outbound OAuth Provider in ServiceNow.
If the scope is not set to Global, go to Settings > Developer > Applications and switch to
Global.

--- Page 1258 of 2193 ---

5. Go to System OAuth > Application Registry.
6. Create a new application by using the Connect to a third party OAuth Provider option and
entering these values:
Client ID: This is the Client ID of the application created in step #1.
Client Secret: This is the Client Secret value of the application created in step #3.
Default Grant type: Client Credentials
Token URL: https://login.microsoftonline.com/{microsoft-365-tenant-
name}/oauth2/token
Redirect URL: https://{service-now-instance-name``}.service-
now.com/auth_redirect.do
[OPTIONAL] Allow the service's IP addresses to Microsoft 365
support integration
If your company is limiting internet access with your own policies, enable network access for the
service of Microsoft 365 support integration by allowing the IP addresses below for both inbound
and outbound API access:
52.149.152.32

--- Page 1259 of 2193 ---
40.83.232.243
40.83.114.39
13.76.138.31
13.79.229.170
20.105.151.142
７ Note
This terminal command lists all active IPs of the service for Microsoft 365 support
integration: nslookup`` connector.rave.microsoft.com
Configure the Microsoft 365 support
integration application
These steps are required to set up the integration between your ServiceNow instance and
Microsoft 365 support.
To open the Microsoft 365 support integration setup wizard, type Microsoft 365 in the
ServiceNow navigator and select Setup.
Steps performed by a ServiceNow administrator
1. Switch the scope to Microsoft 365 support integration.

--- Page 1260 of 2193 ---

2. Go to Microsoft 365 Support > Setup to open the integration workflow.
７ Note
If you see the error "Read operation against 'oauth_entity' from scope
'x_mioms_m365_assis' has been refused due to the table's cross-scope access policy," it
was caused by your table access policy. You must make sure All application scopes >
Can read is checked for the table oauth_entity.

3. Select Agree to continue.

--- Page 1261 of 2193 ---

4. Configure the environment and start the setup.
If this installation is on a test environment, select the option This is a test environment. You
can disable this option after the setup and your tests are completed later.

5. Enter your Microsoft 365 tenant domain.

6. Configure authentication settings.
a. Register the Microsoft Entra app.

--- Page 1262 of 2193 ---
b. After completing the instructions in the prerequisites section, select Done. Otherwise,
follow the instructions in the wizard to create the necessary application registration in
Microsoft Entra ID.

c. Register the ServiceNow OAuth app.
d. After completing the instructions in the prerequisites section, select the newly created
OAuth application registration and select Next. Otherwise, follow the instructions to
create the entity in ServiceNow, and then select the new application registration.

Steps performed by a Microsoft 365 administrator in the
Microsoft 365 admin portal

--- Page 1263 of 2193 ---
７ Note
Do not select Test setup before the Microsoft 365 administrator finishes performing the next
steps.
Verify that the following information is correct.

７ Note
The following steps configure the Microsoft 365 support integration for ServiceNow
application version 2.0.0 and later. If you've installed version 1.0.11 or earlier, you can't
configure a new installation of the application.
1. Configure the support integration settings:

--- Page 1264 of 2193 ---
Select the Basic information tab > Internal support tool > ServiceNow, and enter the
Outbound App ID value in the Application ID to issue Auth Token field. This Outbound
App ID is on Step 6 - Complete the Integration, which was created in Prerequisite step #1.

On the Repositories tab, select New repository and update it with the following
settings:
If you have version 1.0.11 or earlier installed, you must upgrade the application to
version 2.0.0 or later.

--- Page 1265 of 2193 ---

Repository: The Repository ID value from Step 6 - Complete the Integration, which
was created in Prerequisite step #1. Endpoint: The Endpoint value from Step 6 -
Complete the Integration, which was created in Prerequisite step #1.

--- Page 1266 of 2193 ---

2. Select Save.
Steps performed in ServiceNow by a ServiceNow administrator.
A ServiceNow administrator tests the connection and completes the setup.
To complete the setup, go back to your ServiceNow instance and select Test setup.
Test setup
The Microsoft 365 support integration app executes tests to make sure the integration is working.
If there's a problem with the configuration, an error message explains what needs to be fixed.
Otherwise, the application is ready.

--- Page 1267 of 2193 ---

Enable Microsoft support integration for an
existing user
Microsoft 365 support integration is enabled for the user with one of these roles:
x_mioms_m365_assis.insights_user-This role is required to view the Recommended
Solutions & Articles and Microsoft Service Health features in the ServiceNow incident view.
x_mioms_m365_assis.administrator-This role is required to escalate ServiceNow incidents
to Microsoft support using a linked Microsoft 365 admin account. Follow the next section to
link your admin account in the app's settings and finalize the steps to create Microsoft
support cases.
In order for every member of your organization to be able to escalate ServiceNow incidents as
support cases to Microsoft, each member must have the x_mioms_m365_assis.administrator role
applied. The x_mioms_m365_assis.insights_user role is required to gain access to the
Recommended Solutions & Articles and Microsoft Service Health information in the ServiceNow
incident view; it is not required to create Microsoft support cases.
Link Microsoft 365 Admin account
Continue with these instructions if you are looking to escalate your ServiceNow incidents to
Microsoft support from your ServiceNow instance via the app.
If any users are provisioned with the role x_mioms_m365_assis.administrator and are using
different Microsoft 365 accounts to manage a Microsoft 365 support case, they must set up their
Microsoft 365 admin email account by navigating to Microsoft 365 support > Link Account.
Each member is not required to link their Microsoft 365 tenant email account. You are only
required to enter a single valid Microsoft 365 admin email account that has ticket creation
permissions. The app will only maintain a single admin account for this purpose.

--- Page 1268 of 2193 ---

Last updated on 04/28/2025

--- Page 1269 of 2193 ---
Testing the ServiceNow configuration
） Important
Microsoft 365 support integration with ServiceNow is retired, and the service will be
completely shut down on May 30, 2025. If you installed the integration, take necessary steps
to remove it before May 30, 2025.
If your application requires successful communication with external systems, outline how to test
the connection to ensure a successful configuration.
Follow these steps to test the configuration of Microsoft 365 support integration:
1. Log into your ServiceNow portal as admin.
2. Open any incident.
3. Focus on the Microsoft 365 Support tab and select Microsoft 365 Insights to determine if
the recommended solutions were returned successfully.
Last updated on 04/29/2025

--- Page 1270 of 2193 ---
Automatic ServiceNow Incident Creation
） Important
Microsoft 365 support integration with ServiceNow is retired, and the service will be
completely shut down on May 30, 2025. If you installed the integration, take necessary steps
to remove it before May 30, 2025.
The Microsoft 365 support integration app enables you to create ServiceNow incidents when a
Microsoft Service Health Incident is published for your tenant. To use this feature, you must use
version 2.1.0 or later. This feature helps IT teams by automatically creating incidents in
ServiceNow when Microsoft publishes new service health incidents.
７ Note
This article was partially generated using Azure OpenAI Service. Before publishing, an author
reviewed and revised the content as needed. See Our principles for using AI-generated
content in Microsoft Learn .
When a Microsoft Service Health Incident is updated, the app posts the same updates to the
ServiceNow incident. You can choose to have the app automatically close the ServiceNow
incident when the Microsoft service health incident is resolved, or you can close it manually.
The properties on the Microsoft service health incident map to properties on the ServiceNow
incident.
ﾉ Expand table

--- Page 1271 of 2193 ---
Microsoft Service Health ServiceNow Incident
Title Short Description
Issue type Impact
Status Urgency
All other fields Description
Configuration
To enable automatic creation of ServiceNow incidents, navigate to Microsoft 365 Support >
Service Health in your ServiceNow instance.
Select Enable the Microsoft 365 support integration app to create ServiceNow incidents for
each Microsoft 365 service health incident.
To automatically close ServiceNow incidents, select Automatically resolve ServiceNow incident
when the Microsoft service health is resolved.
If the ServiceNow incident is manually closed and this setting is enabled, the app stops posting
updates to that incident.
If the ServiceNow incident is automatically resolved, the app stops posting updates to that
incident. The ServiceNow incident is resolved with the following settings:

--- Page 1272 of 2193 ---
Resolution code: Closed/Resolved by Caller
Resolution note: The Microsoft service health incident was resolved on <date_time>.
Please refer to the incident details in the Microsoft 365 Support tab for more
information.
To automatically create ServiceNow incidents, configure the Assignment group and Category for
the app. The Assigned to and Subcategory aren't required. Setting those values improves
routing and reporting.
Last updated on 04/29/2025

--- Page 1273 of 2193 ---
Troubleshooting Microsoft 365 support
integration with ServiceNow
） Important
Microsoft 365 support integration with ServiceNow is retired, and the service will be
completely shut down on May 30, 2025. If you installed the integration, take necessary steps
to remove it before May 30, 2025.
ﾉ Expand table
# Problem Diagnostics action
1 Can't see Microsoft 365 support tab Verify the current view and System Logs > All
with filter x_mioms_m365_assit
2 Select Microsoft recommended solutions but get Check the error message on top of the form
error "Please contact your ServiceNow admin and ask and System Logs > All with filter
them to complete the setup steps for the app." x_mioms_m365_assit
3 Select Microsoft recommended solutions but get Check the error message on top of the form
error "Please contact your ServiceNow admin and ask and System Logs > All with filter
them to complete the final set up step for the app." x_mioms_m365_assit
4 Type the problem in search box and select Microsoft Check the error message on top of the form
recommended solutions but get error "Please contact and System Logs > All with filter
your ServiceNow admin and ask them to complete the x_mioms_m365_assit
setup steps for the app."
5 Type problem in search box and select Microsoft Check the error message on top of the form
recommended solutions but get error "Please contact and System Logs > All with filter
your ServiceNow admin and ask them to complete the x_mioms_m365_assit
final set up step for the app."
6 Select Contact Microsoft support, but get the error Check the error message on top of the form
"Please contact your ServiceNow admin and ask them and System Logs > All with filter
to complete the setup steps for the app." x_mioms_m365_assit
7 Select Contact Microsoft support, but get the error Check the error message on top of the form
"Please contact your ServiceNow admin and ask them and System Logs > All with filter
to complete the final set up step for the app." x_mioms_m365_assit
8 Select Contact Microsoft support but get the error " Check the error message on top of the form
{EmailAddress} is not a valid Microsoft 365 admin and System Logs > All with filter

--- Page 1274 of 2193 ---
# Problem Diagnostics action
account. You need Microsoft 365 admin privileges to x_mioms_m365_assit
open a service request. In the app, link the admin
account."
9 Select Microsoft recommended solutions but nothing Check System Logs - Outbound HTTP logs
shows up with filter login.microsoftonline.com and
connector.rave.microsoft.com
10 Select Microsoft recommended solutions but get Check the error message on top of the form
error "Please contact app support." and System Logs > All with filter
x_mioms_m365_assit
11 Type problem in search box and select Microsoft Check System Logs - Outbound HTTP logs
recommended solutions but nothing shows up with filter login.microsoftonline.com and
connector.rave.microsoft.com
12 Type problem in search box and select Microsoft Check the error message on top of the form
recommended solutions but get error "Please contact and System Logs > All with filter
app support." x_mioms_m365_assit
13 User selects Contact Microsoft support, but nothing Check System Logs - Outbound HTTP logs
happens with filter login.microsoftonline.com and
connector.rave.microsoft.com
14 Can't see Microsoft recommended solution after Check System Logs > All with filter
reopening the incident x_mioms_m365_assit
15 Can't see Microsoft cases when reopening the Check System Logs > All with filter
incident that was transferred to Microsoft support x_mioms_m365_assit
16 Can't save ticket details, get error "Unable to save Check the error message on top of form
ticket details. Please contact App support."
Last updated on 04/29/2025

--- Page 1275 of 2193 ---
Integrate Microsoft 365 with ServiceNow
Virtual Agent
） Important
Microsoft 365 support integration with ServiceNow is retired, and the service will be
completely shut down on May 30, 2025. If you installed the integration, take necessary steps
to remove it before May 30, 2025.
When you configure the Microsoft 365 support integration app to work with ServiceNow Virtual
Agent, you access the self-help created by Microsoft 365 product teams through two different
user experiences:
Microsoft 365 step-by-step and walk-through solutions.

--- Page 1276 of 2193 ---


--- Page 1277 of 2193 ---

Top web search results from Microsoft 365 knowledge base articles.

--- Page 1278 of 2193 ---

Before you begin

--- Page 1279 of 2193 ---
Enable Virtual Agent in ServiceNow. For details, see Activate Virtual Agent .
Install and complete the setup of the Microsoft 365 support integration app from the
ServiceNow Store.
Minimum version of ServiceNow: Rome.
Role required: ServiceNow admin or virtual_agent_admin.
Configure Microsoft 365 support integration to work
with ServiceNow Virtual Agent
Standalone fallback topic
Set Microsoft 365 Support as your fallback topic. For details, see Configure a Virtual Agent chat
experience .

Topic blocks

--- Page 1280 of 2193 ---
If you don't have any topic created, you can use the standalone fallback topic as above or create
your own virtual agent topic .
Follow these steps to add the Microsoft 365 Support topic block:
1. Under Utilities, select Topic Block, and add it to your flow.

2. Under Topic Block Properties, choose Microsoft 365 Support Topic Block.

3. A Microsoft 365 Support Topic Block accesses input text in this order:
a. Checks for input variable. If the input variable is not empty, fetches the results for the
input variable.

--- Page 1281 of 2193 ---

b. If the input variable is empty, checks for text entered by the user in the chat window and
fetches results for the text.

--- Page 1282 of 2193 ---

c. If the user didn't enter text, asks the user to enter text to fetch results.

--- Page 1283 of 2193 ---

4. Microsoft 365 Support Topic Block provides an output variable, which is the user's feedback
for the results.

--- Page 1284 of 2193 ---
a. Output variable name: m365_success b. Possible output variable values: YES/NO

Last updated on 04/29/2025

--- Page 1285 of 2193 ---
Microsoft business subscriptions and
billing documentation
Learn how to buy and manage business subscriptions, perform license management tasks, and
manage billing and payments for your Microsoft business accounts.
Manage bills and payments
ｃ HOW-TO GUIDE
View your invoice
Manage payment methods
Understand your invoice (MCA)
Understand your invoice (MOSA)
ｅ OVERVIEW
Introducing the new Microsoft billing experience
Pay your invoice with a credit card or billing profile
Pay your invoice with a wire transfer
ｑ VIDEO
Understand your bill or invoice
Update your payment method
Manage licenses
ｃ HOW-TO GUIDE
Buy or remove licenses
Assign or unassign licenses for users
Assign or unassign licenses for groups
Download perpetual software and product license keys
ｅ OVERVIEW

--- Page 1286 of 2193 ---
Understand subscriptions and licenses
ｑ VIDEO
Buy new licenses
Remove existing licenses
Manage subscriptions
ｃ HOW-TO GUIDE
Try or buy Microsoft 365
Buy a domain name
Turn recurring billing on or off
Cancel your subscription
Close your account
ｑ VIDEO
Sign up for Microsoft 365 for business
Move users to a different subscription
Manage pay-as-you-go services
ｃ HOW-TO GUIDE
Set up pay-as-you-go billing in Settings node
Set up pay-as-you-go billing in Billing node
Set up a pay-as-you-go budget
Start using pay-as-you-go services
ｅ OVERVIEW
What are pay-as-you-go services?
Available pay-as-you-go services

--- Page 1287 of 2193 ---
Pay-as-you-go pricing
ｈ WHAT'S NEW
Available new pay-as-you-go services
Manage volume licensing
ｃ HOW-TO GUIDE
Sign in to the Microsoft 365 admin center (volume licensing)
Download volume licensing products
Find and use product keys for volume licensing
Manage License Reservations for volume licensing
Contact volume licensing support

--- Page 1288 of 2193 ---
Microsoft 365 for business security
overview
Applies to: ✅ Microsoft 365 Business Basic, ✅ Microsoft 365 Business Standard, ✅ Microsoft 365 Business
Premium, ✅ Microsoft 365 for Campaigns
Microsoft 365 for business is the collective name of Microsoft 365 subscriptions that cater to
small to medium sized businesses up to 300 users. For more information, see What is Microsoft
365 for business?.
Microsoft 365 for business includes the following subscriptions:
Microsoft 365 Business Basic: For setup instructions, see Set up Microsoft 365 Business
Basic.
Microsoft 365 Business Standard: For setup instructions, see Set up Microsoft 365
Business Standard with a new or existing domain.
Microsoft 365 Business Premium: For setup instructions, see Sign in and set up Microsoft
365 Business Premium.
 Tip
Microsoft 365 for Campaigns is a low priced version of Business Premium for eligible
political campaigns or political parties in eligible countries. The security features in
Business Premium and Microsoft 365 for Campaigns are identical, unless otherwise
identified. For setup instructions, see Microsoft 365 for Campaigns.
This article and the related content is intended for "administrators" or "admins" who are
responsible for the security configuration and settings that affect the entire organization.
Whether you have a background in IT or you're thrust into the role by default, you're an admin
(congratulations).
Areas of security in Microsoft 365 for business
After you finish setting up your Microsoft 365 for business organization, you need to review
and configure the security settings. You can organize the security settings in Microsoft 365 for
business into the following categories:
Account security.
Email and collaboration security.

--- Page 1289 of 2193 ---
Device security.
These security categories are described in the following sections and are summarized in the
following table:
ﾉ Expand table
Business Business Business
Basic Standard Premium
Account security
Microsoft Entra ID Free Free Plan 1
Microsoft Defender Suite for Business Purchased separately
Premium (includes Microsoft Entra ID P2)
Email and collaboration security
Built-in security features for all cloud ✔ ✔ ✔
mailboxes
Microsoft Defender for Office 365 Plan 1
Microsoft Defender Suite for Business Purchased separately
Premium (includes Defender for Office 365
Plan 2)
Device security
Basic Mobility and Security ✔ ✔ ✔
Microsoft Intune Plan 1
Microsoft Defender for Business ✔
Microsoft Defender Suite for Business Purchased separately
Premium (includes Defender for Endpoint
Plan 2)
Account security
All subscriptions in Microsoft 365 for business include Microsoft Entra ID Free, which includes
the feature named security defaults. Because security defaults is on by default, multifactor
authentication (MFA) is enabled by default in Microsoft 365 for business organizations.
Business Premium also includes Microsoft Entra ID P1, which includes the feature named
Conditional Access. Conditional Access uses granular policies based on Zero Trust architecture

--- Page 1290 of 2193 ---
to give users access to resources. If your organization requires increased or complex security
settings, you can use Conditional Access policies instead of security defaults.
For information about security defaults and conditional access, see Multifactor authentication
in Microsoft 365 for business.
For other considerations for administrator or admin accounts, see Admin account security in
Microsoft 365 for business
Email and collaboration security
All subscriptions in Microsoft 365 for business include the built-in security features for all cloud
mailboxes against malware, spam, and phishing (spoofing) in email. For more information, see
Overview of the built-in security features for all cloud mailboxes.
The built-in security features for all cloud mailboxes include the following types of threat
policies that are on by default:
Anti-malware policies
Anti-spam policies
Spoofing protection in anti-phishing policies
Microsoft 365 Business Premium also includes Microsoft Defender for Office 365 Plan 1, which
adds the following types of protection:
Impersonation protection and phishing email thresholds in anti-phishing policies
Safe Attachments policies
Safe Attachments for SharePoint, OneDrive, and Microsoft Teams
Safe Links policies
The default settings for these email and collaboration protection features provide a good level
of protection. But for even better protection, we recommend configuring more settings and
features for the best available protection (for example, turn on and assign the Standard and/or
Strict preset security policies).
For more information, see Email and collaboration security in Microsoft 365 for business.
 Tip
For a deeper dive into default policies vs. custom policies vs. preset security policies, see
Configure threat policies in Defender for Office 365.
The security settings in default policies, the Standard preset security policy, and the Strict
preset security policy are listed in the tables in Recommended email and collaboration

--- Page 1291 of 2193 ---
threat policy settings for cloud organizations.
Device security
All subscriptions in Microsoft 365 for business include Basic Mobility and Security, which is a
limited subset of Microsoft Intune. Basic Mobility and Security is a mobile device management
(MDM) solution that helps you secure access to company data on enrolled devices in
supported apps.
For more information, see Overview of Basic Mobility and Security for Microsoft 365.
Business Premium includes the following extra features for device security:
Microsoft Intune Plan 1: Improves upon Basic Mobility and Security with more features:
Support for mobile device management (MDM) and mobile application management
(MAM) strategies. In MDM, the company manages the whole device. In MAM, the
company manages company data on the device (which is an option for personal
devices, also known as bring your own device or BYOD).
Support for more device types (including macOS).
and more.
For more information, see the following articles:
Microsoft Intune overview
Device and application management in Microsoft 365 Business Premium
Device groups and Microsoft Intune categories in Microsoft 365 Business Premium
Device and application protection in Microsoft 365 Business Premium.
Microsoft Defender for Business: Endpoint security for devices designed especially for
small to medium sized businesses. Defender for Business is equivalent to Microsoft
Defender for Endpoint Plan 1 with some features from Defender for Endpoint Plan 2.
For more information, see the following articles:
Device groups and Microsoft Intune categories in Microsoft 365 Business Premium
Device and application protection in Microsoft 365 Business Premium.
Ability to add Microsoft Defender Suite for Business Premium: If you choose to buy this
extra subscription, you get the following upgraded features:
Microsoft Entra ID P2
Microsoft Defender for Identity
Microsoft Defender for Endpoint Plan 2
Microsoft Defender for Office 365 Plan 2
Microsoft Defender for Cloud Apps

--- Page 1292 of 2193 ---
For more information, see Add Microsoft Defender Suite for Business Premium to your
Microsoft 365 Business Premium subscription.
See also
Microsoft 365 Business Premium frequently asked questions
Set up information protection capabilities in Microsoft 365 Business Premium
Last updated on 12/19/2025

--- Page 1293 of 2193 ---
What's new in security in Microsoft 365 for
business
09/24/2025
Applies to: ✅ Microsoft 365 Business Basic, ✅ Microsoft 365 Business Standard, ✅ Microsoft 365 Business
Premium, ✅ Microsoft 365 for Campaigns
This article lists new security features in the latest releases of Microsoft 365 for business, which
includes Microsoft 365 Business Basic, Microsoft 365 Business Standard, and Microsoft 365
Business Premium. Features that are currently in preview are denoted with (preview).
For more information about Microsoft 365 for business, see What is Microsoft 365 for business.
 Tip
Microsoft 365 Business Premium includes Microsoft Defender for Business. For
information about what's new in Microsoft Defender for Business, see What's new in
Microsoft Defender for Business.
September 2025
You can now add the Microsoft Defender Suite for Business Premium to your
subscription. This add-on replaces the former Microsoft 365 E5 Security add-on.
March 2025
You can now add the Microsoft Defender Suite (formerly known as Microsoft 365 E5
Security) to your Microsoft 365 Business Premium subscription. This add-on up levels your
security capabilities with more protection for your organization's identities, devices, email,
files, and apps. For more information, see the following resources:
Tech Community Blog: Microsoft 365 E5 Security is now available as an add-on to
Microsoft 365 Business Premium
Add Microsoft 365 E5 Security to your Microsoft 365 Business Premium subscription
July 2024
(GA) Learning hub resources moved from the Microsoft Defender portal to
learn.microsoft.com . Access Microsoft Defender XDR Ninja training, learning paths,

--- Page 1294 of 2193 ---
training modules and more. Browse the list of learning paths, and filter by product, role,
level, and subject.
March 2024
(Preview) Turn preview options on in the main Microsoft 365 Defender settings
together with other Microsoft Defender XDR preview features. Customers who aren't
using preview features yet continue to see the legacy settings under Settings >
Endpoints > Advanced features > Preview features. For more information, see Microsoft
Defender XDR preview features.
October 2023
October is Cybersecurity Awareness Month. See how we're making it easier for small and
medium-sized businesses to stay secure .
Special pricing for new Microsoft 365 Business Premium customers. During October,
we're offering special pricing for new customers. For all the details, see Security for your
small or medium-sized business .
July 2023
 Tip
Read all about the exciting, new capabilities releasing in July 2023 in the Tech
Community blog: New SMB security innovations from Microsoft Inspire 2023 .
New training resources for Microsoft partners. A Security Managed services kit and a
three-part digital training series are now available to give step-by-step guidance for
partners to build services based on critical CIS cybersecurity controls. For more
information, see IT partner resources to help build security services in the Tech
Community blog: New SMB security innovations from Microsoft Inspire 2023 .
July 2022
Microsoft Defender for Business servers (preview) is available to customers who have at
least one paid license of Microsoft 365 for business or Defender for Business. See Tech
Community blog: Server protection for small business is now in preview within Microsoft
Defender for Business .

--- Page 1295 of 2193 ---
March 2022
Microsoft 365 Business Premium now includes Defender for Business. To learn more,
see Tech Community blog: New security solutions to help secure small and medium
businesses .
See also
What's new in Microsoft 365 Lighthouse

--- Page 1296 of 2193 ---
Microsoft 365 Business Premium security -
frequently asked questions
Applies to: ✅ Microsoft 365 Business Premium, ✅ Microsoft 365 for Campaigns
 Tip
For frequently asked questions not related to security in Microsoft 365 Business Premium,
see Microsoft 365 Business Premium frequently asked questions.
General
How do I add the Microsoft Defender Suite to
Microsoft 365 Business Premium?
Work with your Microsoft partner or visit Microsoft Security for Business .
Does Microsoft 365 Business Premium with the
Microsoft Defender Suite allow mixed licensing for
endpoint security solutions?
Microsoft Defender for Business doesn't support mixed licensing, so a tenant with Defender for
Business (which is included in Microsoft 365 Business Premium) along with Defender for
Endpoint Plan 2 (which is included in Microsoft Defender Suite for Business Premium) defaults
to the Defender for Business experience.
80 users are licensed for Business Premium (which includes Defender for Business).
To those 80 users, you add 30 licenses of Microsoft Defender Suite (which includes
Defender for Endpoint Plan 2).
The result is: all 80 users get the Defender for Business experience. To switch to the Defender
for Endpoint Plan 2 experience, you need to do the following steps:
1. License all users for Defender for Endpoint Plan 2 using one of the following methods:
License all users with the standalone version of Defender for Endpoint Plan 2.
License all users with the Microsoft Defender Suite.
2. Contact Microsoft Support to request the switch for your organization.

--- Page 1297 of 2193 ---
For more information, see Change your endpoint security subscription.
Is everyone in my organization required to have a
Microsoft 365 Business Premium subscription?
No. However, the security and management benefits of Microsoft 365 Business Premium are
available only to users with devices managed with a Business Premium subscription.
All businesses should seek to standardize their IT environment to help reduce maintenance and
security costs over time. However, we recognize that small and medium-sized businesses often
update their software when they upgrade their hardware over an extended time period.
Although you can deploy Microsoft 365 Business Premium to part of your organization, we
recommend deploying Microsoft 365 Business Premium to all users for the best protection of
sensitive business data and consistent collaboration experiences.
How does Microsoft 365 Business Premium help
support personal devices (also known as bring your
own device or BYOD)?
Many small to medium-sized businesses don't provide company-owned mobile devices to
users, yet users need to access company data when they're not in the office. Although using
personal devices to access company data is common these days (in particular, email and
calendar data), the practice increases the risk that business information could end up in the
wrong hands.
Microsoft 365 Business Premium contains simple but powerful features that allow users to
security access company data on their personal devices while preventing those devices from
accessing, retaining, and/or sharing business information.
For more information, see the following articles:
Device and application management in Microsoft 365 Business Premium
Device and application protection in Microsoft 365 Business Premium
How does Microsoft 365 Business Premium help
protect PCs in my organization from malicious
attacks?

--- Page 1298 of 2193 ---
PCs managed with Microsoft 365 Business Premium are protected by Microsoft Defender for
Business, an endpoint security solution that's designed especially for small and medium-sized
business (up to 300 users). With Defender for Business, the devices in your organization are
better protected from ransomware, malware, phishing, and other threats.
What if my Microsoft 365 Business Premium
organization has some Microsoft Defender for
Business servers licenses, and I want to switch all
users to Microsoft Defender Suite?
You need to change your server plan to Microsoft Defender for Endpoint for servers or
Microsoft Defender for Servers.
Is Microsoft Defender Suite available as an add-on
for Microsoft 365 Business Premium for Nonprofits?
Yes.
Microsoft Defender Suite is available as an add-on for the commercial and non-profit offerings
of Microsoft 365 Business Premium.
Deployment
Does Microsoft 365 Business Premium include the
full capabilities of Microsoft Intune?
Yes.
Microsoft 365 Business Premium subscribers are licensed to use full Intune capabilities for iOS,
Android, Mac, and other cross-platform device management.
Features that aren't available in the simplified management experience in the Microsoft
Defender portal are available in the Microsoft Intune portal. For example:
Non-Microsoft app management
Configuration of Wi-Fi profiles
VPN certificates

--- Page 1299 of 2193 ---
Does Microsoft Entra ID P1 come with Microsoft 365
Business Premium?
Yes.
Microsoft Entra ID P1 is included with Microsoft 365 Business Premium.
Does Microsoft 365 Business Premium allow
customers to manage Apple devices?
Yes.
Microsoft 365 Business Premium includes Intune and Defender for Business to help you
securely manage iOS/iPadOS, and macOS devices.
What is Windows Autopilot?
Windows Autopilot uses a supported version of Windows Semi-Annual Enterprise Channel to
set up PCs with business critical apps, policies, and features (for example, BitLocker) before you
give the PCs to users. Autopilot can also reset, repurpose, and recover Windows devices. For
more information, see Overview of Windows Autopilot.
Compatibility
Can Microsoft 365 Business Premium customers use
Microsoft Defender for Endpoint?
Yes.
Microsoft 365 Business Premium includes Microsoft Defender for Business, which is built on the
capabilities of Defender for Endpoint to provide advanced security protection for devices.
However, you can add Defender for Endpoint Plan 1 or Plan 2 to your Microsoft 365 Business
Premium subscription. For more information, see Microsoft 365 guidance for security &
compliance.

--- Page 1300 of 2193 ---
Microsoft 365 for business security
best practices
Applies to: ✅ Microsoft 365 Business Basic, ✅ Microsoft 365 Business Standard, ✅ Microsoft 365 Business
Premium, ✅ Microsoft 365 for Campaigns
 Tip
This article is for small and medium sized businesses with up to 300 users.
If you're looking for information for enterprise organizations, see Deploy ransomware
protection for your Microsoft 365 organization.
If you're a Microsoft partner, see Resources for Microsoft partners working with small and
medium-sized businesses.
Microsoft 365 for business, which includes Microsoft 365 Business Basic, Microsoft 365 Business
Standard, and Microsoft 365 Business Premium, includes anti-phishing, anti-spam, and anti-
malware protection for email. Microsoft 365 Business Premium includes even more security
capabilities, such as advanced cybersecurity protection for:
Devices (computers, tablets, and phones; also known as endpoints)
Email & collaboration content (for example, Office documents)
Data (encryption, sensitivity labels, and Data Loss Prevention or DLP)
This article describes the top 10 ways to secure your business data with Microsoft 365 for
business. For more information about what each plan includes, see Microsoft 365 for
Businesses .
Top 10 ways to secure your business data

--- Page 1301 of 2193 ---

The following table summarizes how to secure your data using Microsoft 365 for business.
ﾉ Expand table
Best practices and capabilities Business Business Business
Basic Standard Premium
1. Use multi-factor authentication (MFA), also known as two-step
verification:
Security defaults is on by default and is suitable for most ✔ ✔ ✔
organizations.
Use Conditional Access for more stringent requirements. ✔
2. Protect admin accounts. See Admin account security in Microsoft 365 ✔ ✔ ✔
for business.
3. Use preset security policies. See Preset security policies in cloud
organizations and Determine your threat policy strategy.
Built-in security features for all cloud mailboxes. Includes: Anti-spam, ✔ ✔ ✔
anti-malware, and anti-phishing (spoof) protection.
Microsoft Defender for Office 365 Plan 1 protection. Includes: Extra ✔
anti-phishing protection features (impersonation protection and anti-
phishing thresholds), Safe Links (email, Office apps, and Microsoft
Teams), and Safe Attachments (email and files in SharePoint, OneDrive,
and Microsoft Teams)
4. Protect all devices that access company data, including personal and
company devices:

--- Page 1302 of 2193 ---
Best practices and capabilities Business Business Business
Basic Standard Premium
Basic Mobility and Security (provides mobile device management or ✔ ✔ ✔
MDM)
Microsoft Intune Plan 1 (provides MDM and mobile app management ✔
or MAM)
Device protection policies in Microsoft Defender for Business and ✔
Microsoft Intune
5. Use email securely
Protect yourself against phishing and other attacks. ✔ ✔ ✔
Use Microsoft Purview Message Encryption automatically with ✔
Exchange mail flow rules (also known as transport rules) or manually .
Custom branding is also available.
Use Microsoft Purview Data Loss Prevention to safeguard company ✔
data.
Use Sensitivity labels to mark email messages as sensitive, ✔
confidential, etc.
6. Work together in Microsoft Teams
Use Microsoft Teams for communication, collaboration, and sharing ✔ ✔ ✔
Get time of click protection for URLs and files in Teams messages with ✔
Safe Links for Microsoft Teams and Safe Attachments for SharePoint,
OneDrive, and Microsoft Teams.
Allow/block URLs and files inside Teams using the Tenant Allow/Block ✔
List.
Use sensitivity labels for meetings to protect calendar items, Teams ✔
meetings, and chat.
Use Microsoft Purview Data Loss Prevention in Microsoft Teams to ✔
safeguard company data.
7. Set file sharing settings
Safe Links and Safe Attachments for SharePoint and OneDrive ✔
Use Sensitivity labels to mark items as sensitive, confidential, etc. ✔
Use Microsoft Purview Data Loss Prevention to safeguard company ✔
data.

--- Page 1303 of 2193 ---
Best practices and capabilities Business Business Business
Basic Standard Premium
8. Use Microsoft 365 Apps
Use Outlook and web/mobile versions of Microsoft 365 Apps for all ✔ ✔ ✔
users
Install Microsoft 365 Apps on user devices. ✔ ✔
Use the User quick setup guide to help users get set up and ✔ ✔ ✔
running.
9. Manage calendar sharing
Outlook for email and calendars. ✔ ✔ ✔
Microsoft Purview Data Loss Prevention to safeguard company data. ✔
10. Maintain your environment: See Maintain your environment. ✔ ✔ ✔
For more information about what each plan includes, see Microsoft 365 for Businesses .
Last updated on 05/28/2026

--- Page 1304 of 2193 ---
Set up information protection in Microsoft
365 Business Premium
Applies to: ✅ Microsoft 365 Business Premium, ✅ Microsoft 365 for Campaigns
Microsoft 365 Business Premium includes information protection capabilities for compliance
and privacy:
Sensitivity labels for email and files and meetings in Microsoft Teams
Microsoft Purview Data Loss Prevention (DLP).
Microsoft Purview Message Encryption

You can use these capabilities to help protect your company's data, and keep your and your
customers' sensitive information more secure.
Use this article to get started with your information protection capabilities.
What do you need to know before you begin?
You need to be assigned permissions before you can do the procedures in this article. You
have the following options:
Microsoft Entra permissions: Membership in the Global Administrator* or Compliance
Administrator roles.

--- Page 1305 of 2193 ---
） Important
* Microsoft recommends that you use roles with the fewest permissions. Using
lower permissioned accounts helps improve security for your organization. Global
Administrator is a highly privileged role that should be limited to emergency
scenarios when you can't use an existing role.
Use Compliance Manager

Business Premium includes Microsoft Purview Compliance Manager, which can help you get
started setting up your compliance features. Features include data loss prevention (DLP), data
lifecycle management, and insider risk management. Compliance Manager saves time by
highlighting recommendations, a compliance score, and ways to improve your score.
Here's how to get started:
1. In the Microsoft Purview portal at https://purview.microsoft.com , go to Solutions >
Compliance Manager. Or, to go directly to the Overview page of Compliance Manager,
use https://purview.microsoft.com/compliancemanager/overviewpage .
2. On the Overview page of Compliance Manager, review the information. Select an entry
or link to view more information or to take action.
Selecting the Remaining actions value for a solution entry in the Solutions that affect
your score section opens the Improvement actions page that's filtered by the solution
you selected.

--- Page 1306 of 2193 ---

For example, in the Solutions that affect your score section, selecting the value in the
Remaining actions column for the Data loss prevention solution opens the Improvement
actions page filtered by Solutions: Data loss prevention.

3. On the Improvement actions page, selecting an Improvement action entry takes you to a
detailed actions page.
For example, selecting Create customized DLP policies for personally identifiable
information (PII) opens the detailed actions page with more information about the policy
to configure.

--- Page 1307 of 2193 ---

Follow the information on the page to set up your DLP policy.
For more information about Compliance Manager, see Microsoft Purview Compliance
Manager.
Use sensitivity labels
Sensitivity labels are available in Microsoft 365 Apps (such as Outlook, Word, Excel, and
PowerPoint). For example:
Normal
Personal
Private
Confidential
You can also create custom labels.
Use the following articles to get started with sensitivity labels:
1. Learn about sensitivity labels.
2. Get started with sensitivity labels.
3. Create and configure sensitivity labels and their policies.
4. Show people in your company how to use sensitivity labels
Use DLP policies
Microsoft Purview Data Loss Prevention helps protect sensitive information by preventing
intentionally or unintentionally sharing it with others who shouldn't have it. With a DLP policy,
you can identify, monitor, and automatically protect sensitive items across Microsoft 365 Apps
(such as Word, Excel, and PowerPoint), and in email.
Use the following articles to get started with DLP:
1. Learn about data loss prevention.

--- Page 1308 of 2193 ---
2. Create and Deploy DLP policies.
Use email encryption
Use Microsoft Purview Message Encryption to protect the information in email messages. The
contents of an encrypted email message are converted from readable plain text into scrambled
cypher text. Only recipients with the private key that corresponds to the public key used to
encrypt the message can decipher the message for reading. Any recipient without the
corresponding private key sees scrambled cypher text.
Admins can define rules to automatically encrypt messages that meet certain criteria. For
instance, your admin can create a rule that encrypts all messages sent outside your
organization or all messages that mention specific words or phrases. Any encryption rules are
applied automatically.
Use the following articles to get started with encryption:
1. Set up Message Encryption, including optional customized branding.
2. Automatic: Define mail flow rules to encrypt email messages.
3. Manual: Send Microsoft Purview encrypted email in Outlook .
Last updated on 09/09/2025

--- Page 1309 of 2193 ---
Why should I choose Microsoft 365
Business Premium?
Applies to: ✅ Microsoft 365 Business Premium, ✅ Microsoft 365 for Campaigns
Microsoft 365 Business Premium is a complete productivity and security solution for small and
medium-sized businesses. It provides comprehensive cloud productivity and security and is
designed especially for small and medium-sized businesses (up to 300 users). With Microsoft
365 Business Premium, you can:
Enable users to be connected and productive, whether they're working on site or
remotely, with best-in-class collaboration tools like Microsoft Teams.
Provide users with secure access to their business data and apps, and help ensure that
only authorized personnel can access confidential work data.
Defend against sophisticated cyberthreats and safeguard your business data with
advanced protection against phishing, ransomware, and data loss.
Manage and secure devices (Windows, Mac, iOS, and Android) that connect to your data,
and help keep those devices up to date.
Microsoft 365 Business Premium offers you one comprehensive solution for productivity and
security. You have everything you need in one place for administration, billing, and 24x7
support, while reducing cost and complexity for your business.
For instructions to secure your business, see Microsoft 365 for business security best practices.
Video: Top five benefits of Microsoft 365 Business
Premium
Watch the following video to see how Microsoft 365 Business Premium helps your business be
more productive and secure:
https://learn-video.azurefd.net/vod/player?id=6f3cae8f-688c-46f3-9987-
cfcf3168bf97&locale=en-us&embedUrl=%2Fmicrosoft-365%2Fadmin%2Fsecurity-and-
compliance%2Fm365bp-security-benefits
 Tip
For detailed information about what's included in Microsoft 365 Business Premium, see
the Microsoft 365 User Subscription Suites for Small and Medium-sized Businesses .

--- Page 1310 of 2193 ---
Configure security protection in Microsoft 365
Business Premium
After you complete the basic setup process for Microsoft 365 Business Premium (or Microsoft
365 for Campaigns), your next step is to set up and configure your security protection.
Watch the following video for a brief overview of initial security settings to configure.
https://learn-video.azurefd.net/vod/player?id=09b286e6-27c1-46d6-8ca4-
4c1b0324cc9c&locale=en-us&embedUrl=%2Fmicrosoft-365%2Fadmin%2Fsecurity-and-
compliance%2Fm365bp-security-benefits
For more information, see Microsoft 365 for business security overview
Download the digital threats guide
Our digital threats guide describes different kinds of threats and what you can do to protect
against these threats. Download this visual guide for you and your team:
PDF | PowerPoint
Cybersecurity playbook
The guidance in these goals is based upon the Zero Trust security model, and is summarized in
a downloadable Cybersecurity playbook .

--- Page 1311 of 2193 ---
Last updated on 09/09/2025

--- Page 1312 of 2193 ---
Monitor Microsoft 365 Business Premium
and Defender for Business
09/09/2025Applies to: ✅ Microsoft 365 Business Premium, ✅ Microsoft 365 for Campaigns
In Microsoft 365 Business Premium or the standalone version of Microsoft Defender for
Business, you need to prepare a plan for security maintenance and security operations. It's
important to keep your systems, devices, user accounts, and security policies up to date to help
protect against attacks. You can use this article as a guide to prepare your plan.
Security tasks are typically done by members of the Security Administrators and Security
Operators roles. For more information, see the following articles:
Learn more about admin roles
Assign security roles and permissions
 Tip
For information about general maintenance tasks in Business Premium, see Maintain
Microsoft 365 Business Premium.
Daily security tasks
ﾉ Expand table
Task Description
Check the Get a snapshot of the vulnerability of your organization to cybersecurity threats. A
Microsoft high exposure score means your organization is more vulnerable to exploitation.
Defender To check your score, do the following steps:
Vulnerability
1. In the Microsoft Defender portal, go to the Microsoft Defender Vulnerability
Management
Management dashboard at
dashboard
https://security.microsoft.com/tvm_dashboard/Endpoint .
2. On the Microsoft Defender Vulnerability Management dashboard page, go
to the Organization exposure score card. A higher exposure score means your
devices are more vulnerable to exploitation.
3. Select Improve score to see more details and security recommendations to
improve (lower) your exposure score.
Awareness of your exposure score helps you to:

--- Page 1313 of 2193 ---
Task Description
Quickly understand and identify high-level takeaways about the state of
security in your organization.
Detect and respond to areas that require investigation or action to improve
the current state.
Communicate with peers and management about the results of security
efforts.
For more information, see Use your vulnerability management dashboard in
Microsoft Defender for Business.
Review pending As threats are detected, remediation actions come into play. Depending on the
actions in the threat and your security settings configuration, remediation actions are taken
Action center automatically or only after approval, so you need to regularly monitor remediation
actions.
To check pending actions, do the following steps:
1. In the Defender portal, go to the Action Center page at
https://security.microsoft.com/action-center/ .
2. On the Action Center page, use the Pending tab to view and approve or reject
any pending actions. Actions on the Pending tab can arise from anti-virus
protection, anti-malware protection, automated investigations, manual
response activities, or live response sessions.
3. Use the History tab to view completed actions.
For more information, see Review remediation actions in the Action center.
Review devices Learn about threat detections on devices so you can promptly take any required
with threat actions (for example, isolate the device).
detections To review devices with threat detections, do the following steps:
1. In the Defender portal, go to the Security report page at
https://security.microsoft.com/reports .
2. On the Security report page, use the information in the Devices section to see
detected threats and details about detected malware on devices.
For more information, see Security report.
Check incidents Incidents are created as threats are detected and alerts are triggered.
and alerts To check your incidents and alerts, do the following steps:
1. In the Defender portal, go to the Incidents page at
https://security.microsoft.com/incidents .
2. On the Incidents page. incidents and the associated alerts are displayed.
3. When you select an incident from the list, a details flyout opens where you can
learn more about the alert. The details flyout contains the alert title, a list of
affected assets (for example, endpoints or user accounts), available actions,
links to view more information, and a link to an alert details page.

--- Page 1314 of 2193 ---
Task Description
For more information, see View and manage incidents in Microsoft Defender for
Business.
Run a scan or You can initiate a scan or an automated investigation on a device that has a high risk
automated level or detected threats. Depending on the results, remediation actions are taken
investigation automatically or after approval.
To run a scan or automated investigation on a device, do the following steps:
1. In the Defender portal, go to the Device inventory page at
https://security.microsoft.com/machines .
2. On the Device inventory page, select a device from the list by clicking
anywhere in the row other than the check box or the Name value.
3. At the top of the devices details flyout that opens, select More actions, and
then select Run antivirus scan or Initiate Automated Investigation.
For more information, see Manage devices in Microsoft Defender for Business.
Weekly security tasks
ﾉ Expand table
Task Description
Monitor and Microsoft Secure Score is a measurement of your organization's security posture.
improve your Higher numbers indicate your organization needs fewer improvement actions. By
Microsoft using Secure Score, you can:
Secure Score Report on the current state of your organization's security posture.
Improve your security posture by providing discoverability, visibility, guidance,
and control.
Compare with benchmarks and establish key performance indicators (KPIs).
To check your score, do the following steps:
1. In the Defender portal, go to the Microsoft Secure Score page at
https://security.microsoft.com/exposure-secure-score .
2. On the Microsoft Secure Score page, review and make decisions about the
remediations and actions in order to improve your overall Microsoft secure
score.
For more information, see Assess your security posture with Microsoft Secure Score.

--- Page 1315 of 2193 ---
Task Description
Monitor and Remediate issues using the security recommendations list. As you do, your Microsoft
improve your Secure Score for Devices improves and your organization becomes more resilient
Microsoft against cybersecurity threats and vulnerabilities.
Secure Score for To check your secure score for devices, do the following steps:
Devices
1. In the Microsoft Defender portal, go to the Microsoft Defender Vulnerability
Management dashboard at
https://security.microsoft.com/tvm_dashboard/Endpoint .
2. On the Microsoft Defender Vulnerability Management dashboard page, go to
the Microsoft Secure Score for Devices card, and then do one of the following
steps to open the Security recommendations page:
Select the data in one of the available categories (for example,
Application, OS, Network, **Accounts, or Security controls) to open the
Security recommendations page filtered by that category.
Select Improve score to open the the Security recommendations page
unfiltered
3. On the Security recommendations page, select an entry from the list. The
details flyout that opens has General Remediation options, and Exposed
devices tabs that contain details related to the recommendation.
4. On the Remediation options tab, select Remediation options, fill out the form,
and then select Submit.
5.
6. Send a follow-up notification email to your security admin to approve or reject
the request.
7. View the status of the remediation on the Remediation page at
https://security.microsoft.com/remediation/remediation-activities .
/
For more information, see Use your vulnerability management dashboard in
Microsoft Defender for Business.
Monthly security tasks
ﾉ Expand table
Task Description
Run Many security reports are available on the Reports page in the Defender portal at
security https://security.microsoft.com/securityreports . For more information, see the following
reports articles:
Reports in Microsoft Defender for Business
View email security reports in the Microsoft Defender portal

--- Page 1316 of 2193 ---
Task Description
View Defender for Office 365 reports in the Microsoft Defender portal
Mail flow reports in the new Exchange admin center in Exchange Online
As needed security tasks
ﾉ Expand table
Task Description
Manage false False positives are good items identified as bad. False negatives are bad items that
positives and aren't identified as threats. False positives and false negatives happen in any threat
false negatives protection solution, including Defender for Office 365 Plan 1 and Defender for Business,
which are both included in Microsoft 365 Business Premium. Fortunately, you can take
steps to address and reduce false positives and false negatives:
Devices: See Address false positives/negatives in Microsoft Defender for
Endpoint.
Email & collaboration: See the following articles:
Handle false negative email messages in Defender for Office 365
>Handle false positive email messages in Defender for Office 365
.
Strengthen Defender for Business includes the Microsoft Defender Vulnerability Management
your security dashboard that gives your organization an exposure score, shows information about
posture exposed devices, and shows relevant security recommendations. Use the dashboard to
reduce your organization's exposure to threats and improve your security posture.
For more information, see the following articles:
Use your vulnerability management dashboard in Microsoft Defender for
Business
Dashboard insights
.
Adjust security Reports display information about detected threats, device status, and more.
policies Sometimes it's necessary to adjust your security policies or apply more strict or less
strict settings to specific groups of users.
For more information, see the following articles:
Devices: See View or edit policies in Microsoft Defender for Business.
Email & collaboration: See the following articles:
Recommended email and collaboration threat policy settings for cloud
organizations

--- Page 1317 of 2193 ---
Task Description
Configuration analyzer for threat policies in cloud organizations
Configure threat policies in Defender for Office 365
Admin Sometimes it's necessary to submit suspicious or misjudged email messages, email
submissions attachments, or URLs to Microsoft for further analysis. Reporting these items is critical
to train the system to reduce false positives and false negatives, and to improve threat
detection accuracy.
For more information, see the following articles:
Submit suspected spam, phish, URLs, legitimate email getting blocked, and email
attachments to Microsoft
Admin review for user reported messages
Protect priority Accounts for executives, leaders, or other users with access to sensitive, proprietary, or
accounts high priority information are valuable targets for attackers. If compromised, these
accounts pose a serious threat to the security and stability of your organization. We call
these types of accounts priority accounts. In Business Premium, you can designate
specific users as priority accounts so they receive targeted and more appropriate
protections.
For more information, see the following articles:
Admin account security in Microsoft 365 for business
Security recommendations for priority accounts in Microsoft 365
Manage and monitor priority accounts
User tags (priority accounts) in reports and features
Protect high- The overall risk assessment of a device is based on a combination of factors (for
risk devices example, the type and severity of active alerts on the device). As you resolve active
alerts, approve remediation activities, and suppresses subsequent alerts, the risk level
decreases.
For more information, see Manage devices in Microsoft Defender for Business.
Onboard or As you replace or retire devices, purchase new devices, or your business needs change,
offboard you can onboard or offboard devices from Defender for Business.
devices
For more information, see the following articles:
>Onboard devices to Microsoft Defender for Business
Offboard devices from Microsoft Defender for Business

--- Page 1318 of 2193 ---
Task Description
Remediate an Several remediation actions are available. Some actions are taken automatically, and
item others await approval.
1. In the Defender portal, go to the Device inventory page at
https://security.microsoft.com/machines .
2. On the Device inventory page, select a device from the list by clicking anywhere
in the row other than the check box or the Name value (for example, select a
device with a higher Risk level or Exposure level value).
3. At the top of the devices details flyout that opens, select More actions, and
then select and available action. For example, you might select Run antivirus
scan or Initiate Automated Investigation.
For more information, see Manage devices in Microsoft Defender for Business.
Remediation actions for devices
The following table summarizes remediation actions that are available for devices in Microsoft
365 Business Premium and Defender for Business:
ﾉ Expand table
Source Actions
Automated investigations Quarantine a file
Remove a registry key
Kill a process
Stop a service
Disable a driver
Remove a scheduled task
Manual response actions Run antivirus scan
Isolate device
Add an indicator to block or allow a file
Live response Collect forensic data
Analyze a file
Run a script
Send a suspicious entity to Microsoft for analysis
Remediate a file
Proactively hunt for threats

--- Page 1319 of 2193 ---
See also
Security incident management
Reports in Defender for Business
Microsoft 365 for business security best practices

--- Page 1320 of 2193 ---
Add Microsoft Defender Suite for Business
Premium to your subscription
09/24/2025Applies to: ✅ Microsoft 365 Business Premium, ✅ Microsoft 365 for Campaigns
As you probably already know, Microsoft 365 Business Premium is an excellent productivity
and security solution for small and medium sized businesses up to 300 users. With this
solution, you get:
Microsoft 365 Apps installed on your devices
Protection for your user accounts with Microsoft Entra ID P1
Endpoint management, security, and mobile application management with Microsoft
Intune Plan 1
Protection for your devices with Microsoft Defender for Business
Protection for email and files with Microsoft Defender for Office 365 Plan 1
Microsoft Purview Information Protection and data loss prevention (DLP) for email and
files with Microsoft Purview.
Extend your current security capabilities with
Microsoft Defender Suite for Business Premium
You can now extend the security capabilities you have in Microsoft 365 Business Premium by
adding Microsoft Defender Suite for Business Premium to your subscription. Adding Microsoft
Defender Suite for Business Premium to Microsoft 365 Business Premium provides your
business with even more protection in a cost-effective solution.
See the Tech Community Blog: Microsoft Defender Suite for Business Premium is now
available as an add-on to Microsoft 365 Business Premium .
Microsoft Defender Suite for Business Premium at a glance
Microsoft Defender Suite for Business Premium up levels your Microsoft 365 Business Premium
security capabilities with:
Enhanced identity and access controls with Microsoft Entra ID P2, which adds advanced
security and governance features with Microsoft Entra ID Protection and Microsoft Entra
ID Governance.
Identity protection with Microsoft Defender for Identity, which is an identity threat
detection and response (ITDR) solution that helps secure identity monitoring across your
organization.

--- Page 1321 of 2193 ---
Device security with Microsoft Defender for Endpoint Plan 2, which adds threat hunting,
live response, six months of data retention on the device, and endpoint security for IoT
devices.
Collaboration security with Microsoft Defender for Office 365 Plan 2, which adds
automated investigation and response, attack simulation training, threat trackers,
advanced hunting, incident and alert investigation, and threat explorer.
Software as a Service (SaaS) security with Microsoft Defender for Cloud Apps, which
enables IT teams to identify and manage shadow IT and ensure that only approved
applications are used.
Compare the upgraded features in Microsoft Defender Suite
for Business Premium
The upgraded features in Defender for Endpoint Plan 2 vs. Defender for Business are described
in Differences between Defender for Business and Defender for Endpoint Plan 2.
The upgraded features in Defender for Office 365 Plan 2 vs. Plan 1 are described at Defender
for Office 365 Plan 1 vs. Plan 2 cheat sheet.
The upgraded features in Microsoft Entra ID P2 vs. P1 are described at Microsoft Entra plans
and pricing .
Try or buy Microsoft Defender Suite for Business
Premium today
To get Microsoft Defender Suite for Business Premium, you have the following options:
Work with a Microsoft Partner
Visit Microsoft Security for Business
See also
Microsoft 365 User Subscription Suites for Small and Medium-sized Businesses

--- Page 1322 of 2193 ---
Microsoft 365 Business Premium Partner Playbook

--- Page 1323 of 2193 ---
Secure Microsoft 365 Copilot for small
businesses
09/09/2025
Applies to: ✅ Microsoft 365 Business Basic, ✅ Microsoft 365 Business Standard, ✅ Microsoft 365 Business
Premium, ✅ Microsoft 365 for Campaigns
This article explains the differences in security and compliance controls in Microsoft 365
Copilot in Microsoft 365 for business, which includes Microsoft 365 Business Basic, Microsoft
365 Business Standard, and Microsoft 365 Business Premium. This article doesn't attempt to
describe the full capabilities of Microsoft 365 Copilot or the full security and compliance
features in Microsoft 365 for business.
The following sections contain scenarios to clarify how security features in Business Basic,
Business Standard, and Business Premium can help protect you when you use Microsoft 365
Copilot.
Enable new levels of user productivity while
safeguarding company data and resources
How can companies enable new levels of user productivity with tools like Microsoft 365 Copilot
while safeguarding company data and resources?
Business Basic and Business Standard: Use the following capabilities to make sure that
unauthorized users can't use Microsoft 365 Copilot to access information or confidential
data in files where they don't have access:
Sign in without a password using multifactor authentication to help ensure only
authorized users have access to data.
Ensure only enrolled, compliant devices can access Microsoft 365 resources with
device-based Conditional Access.
Wipe all work content, including content generated by Copilot if a device is lost, stolen,
or compromised.
Revoke work access on noncompliant devices except Windows devices
Business Premium: Extended protection in the following scenarios:
Further prevent external bad actors from gaining access to Microsoft 365 resources.
Protect against user misuse of Microsoft 365 Copilot by creating conditions to grant
internal access.
Reduce the ability for users or external parties from inappropriately saving or leaking
data outside the organization.

--- Page 1324 of 2193 ---
The following capabilities in Business Premium lead to results in those scenarios:
Use biometrics to sign in to your Microsoft 365 account using Windows Hello for
Business (enabled in Windows 11 Pro, which is available in Business Premium).
Grant access to Microsoft 365 resources only when specific conditions are met
(identity, device, and location) using user-based Conditional Access.
Require users or guests to accept the terms of use policy before gaining access to
resources.
Restrict the use of Microsoft 365 apps, Microsoft Teams, and Copilot in these apps on
personal devices.
Prevent saving files to unprotected apps.
Restrict the ability to copy and forward confidential business information with data loss
prevention for email and files.
Keep sensitive or personal data from being
exposed
How can companies ensure that sensitive or personal data isn't exposed when using Microsoft
365 Copilot?
Use the following capabilities in Business Basic or Business Standard to make sure that
unauthorized users can't use Microsoft 365 Copilot to gain access to information or
confidential data in files that they don't have access to:
Change default sharing options in SharePoint and OneDrive.
Prohibit Microsoft 365 Copilot from including sensitive data that users don't have
permissions to view in generated responses.
Exclude sensitive files that users don't have permissions to view from processing by
Copilot.
Business Premium further extends the protection of sensitive data by requiring sensitivity
labels for Microsoft 365 content. These labels help ensure that only users with specific
permissions can use Microsoft 365 Copilot to access, generate, or share sensitive data.
Matching sensitivity labels are automatically applied to any content generated by
Microsoft 365 Copilot.
The following capabilities in Business Premium lead to those protections:
Protect Microsoft 365 data from access by unauthorized users by implementing
manual, default, and mandatory content labeling.
Microsoft 365 Copilot automatically inherits and applies sensitivity labels that match
any queried material or references.

--- Page 1325 of 2193 ---
Support regulatory compliance and eDiscovery
requests
How can companies monitor interactions with Microsoft 365 Copilot and support related
regulatory compliance or eDiscovery requests?
In Business Basic or Business Standard, companies can achieve the following results:
Monitor, search, and export user interactions with Microsoft 365 Copilot, and any
content generated by Microsoft 365 Copilot.
Define how long content generated by Microsoft 365 Copilot should be retained
within Microsoft 365.
The following capabilities in Business Basic or Business Standard lead to these results:
Search for and export Copilot interactions by content and keyword search.
Maintain a log of all Microsoft 365 Copilot interactions within the organization.
Apply retention or deletion policies for Copilot interactions and any generated content.
Business Premium further extends the support for investigations or other legal processes
by asserting a legal hold on material associated with Microsoft 365 Copilot.
In Business Premium, use eDiscovery (Standard) to search for Copilot interactions by
content, keyword search, create cases, assign managers, apply legal hold, and export the
search results to investigate incidents and respond to litigation.
Appendix
The available security and compliance features related to Microsoft 365 Copilot in Business
Basic, Business Standard, and Business Premium is summarized in the following tables:
Identity and Access Management (Microsoft Entra ID):
ﾉ Expand table
Scenario Business Business Business
Basic Standard Premium
Sign in to Microsoft 365 Copilot with a single identity. ✔ ✔ ✔
Enforce MFA when accessing Microsoft 365 to use Copilot. ✔ ✔ ✔
Enable end-user password reset, change, and unlock when Cloud Cloud ✔
accessing Microsoft 365. users users

--- Page 1326 of 2193 ---
Scenario Business Business Business
Basic Standard Premium
Implement Conditional Access policies based on identity, ✔
device, and location when accessing Microsoft 365 to use
Copilot.
Enable near real-time access policies enforcement, evaluate ✔
critical events, and immediately revoke access to Microsoft
365.
Require users or guests to accept terms of use policy before ✔
gaining access.
Endpoint Management (Basic Mobility and Security or Intune):
ﾉ Expand table
Scenario Business Business Business
Basic Standard Premium
Push/deploy Microsoft 365 apps to devices and grant access ✔
to Copilot in those apps.
Manage Microsoft 365 app updates. ✔
Restrict the use of Microsoft 365 apps and Teams (and Copilot ✔
in those apps) on personal devices.
Prevent saving files (including files generated by Copilot) to ✔
unprotected apps.
Wipe all work content (including content generated by ✔ ✔ ✔
Copilot) if a device is lost, stolen, or compromised.
Revoke work access on noncompliant devices. iOS, ✔
Android
Data Security and Compliance (Information Protection):
ﾉ Expand table
Scenario Business Business Business
Basic Standard Premium
Search for Copilot generated data and Search and Search and Search and export
interactions with eDiscovery capabilities. export results export results results
and

--- Page 1327 of 2193 ---
Scenario Business Business Business
Basic Standard Premium
Case management
and legal hold
Audit logs for Copilot interactions. Audit Audit Audit (Standard)
(Standard) (Standard)
Apply a manual retention policy for Copilot ✔ ✔ ✔
interactions.
Data loss prevention (DLP) policies to Files and email
protect sensitive data generated by Copilot
and saved in Microsoft 365 locations from
exfiltration.
Inherit sensitivity labels and cite sensitivity ✔
labels in output and references in Copilot.
Prohibit Copilot from including sensitive ✔ ✔
data where users have no extract
permissions.
Exclude sensitive files that users have no ✔ ✔ ✔
permission to view from processing by
Copilot.
Manually label and protect Microsoft 365 Files and email
content used by Copilot.

--- Page 1328 of 2193 ---
Multifactor authentication in Microsoft 365
Passwords are the most common method of authenticating users, but they're also the most
vulnerable. People often use weak, easy to guess passwords, and use the same credentials at
different services.
To provide an extra level of security, multifactor authentication (also known as MFA, two-factor
authentication, or 2FA) requires a second verification method for user sign-ins based on:
Something a user has that isn't easily duplicated. For example, a smart phone.
Something unique to the user. For example, a fingerprint or other biometric attributes.
The extra verification method is used only after the password is verified. Even if a strong user
password is compromised, the attacker doesn't have the user's smart phone or fingerprints to
complete the sign-in.
The available methods to enable MFA in Microsoft 365 organizations, including Microsoft 365 for
business organizations, are described in the following sections.
For configuration instructions, see Set up MFA for Microsoft 365.
Security defaults
Security defaults is a set of unmodifiable policies in all Microsoft 365 organizations via Microsoft
Entra ID Free.
Security defaults include the following security features:
Require all users and admins to register for Microsoft Entra multifactor authentication (MFA)
using the Microsoft Authenticator app or any non-Microsoft authentication app that
supports OATH TOTP.
Require MFA for administrator accounts at every sign in.
Require MFA for users when necessary (for example, on new devices).
Block legacy authentication protocols (for example, POP3 and IMAP4 in old email clients).
Require MFA for users and admins accessing Azure Resource Manager services (for example,
the Microsoft Azure portal).
Security defaults is either on or off in an organization. Microsoft 365 organizations created after
October 2019 have security defaults (hence, MFA) turned on by default, so you don't need to do

--- Page 1329 of 2193 ---
anything to enable security defaults or MFA in a new organization. For many organizations,
security defaults offer a good, baseline level of sign-in security.
For more information about security defaults and the policies enforced, see Enforced security
policies in security defaults.
To configure security defaults, see Manage security defaults.
Conditional Access policies
As an alternative to using security defaults, Conditional Access policies are available for
organizations who have Microsoft Entra ID P1 or P2. Examples include:
Microsoft 365 Business Premium (Microsoft Entra ID P1)
Microsoft 365 E3 (Microsoft Entra ID P1)
Microsoft 365 E5 (Microsoft Entra ID P2)
An add-on subscription
 Tip
Organizations with Microsoft Entra ID P2 also have access to Microsoft Entra ID Protection.
You can create a Conditional Access policy to require multifactor authentication for
elevated sign-in risk. For more information, see What is Microsoft Entra ID Protection?.
You create Conditional Access policies that react to sign-in events before a user is granted access
to an application or service. If your organization has complex security requirements or you need
granular control over security policies, you can use Conditional Access policies instead of security
defaults.
） Important
Organizations can use security defaults or Conditional Access policies, but not both at the
same time. Conditional Access policies require security defaults to be turned off, so it's
important to recreate the policies from security defaults in Conditional Access policies as a
baseline for all users.
For more information about Conditional Access policies, see What is Conditional Access?.
To configure Conditional Access policies, see Manage Conditional Access policies.

--- Page 1330 of 2193 ---
Legacy per-user MFA (not recommended)
If you can't use security defaults or Conditional Access for business reasons, your last option is
using legacy MFA for individual Microsoft Entra ID accounts. This option is avialable with the
Microsoft Entra ID Free plan. We strongly recommend MFA for accounts with administrator roles,
especially the Global Administrator role.
For configuration instructions, see Enable per-user Microsoft Entra multifactor authentication to
secure sign-in events.
） Important
Microsoft recommends that you use roles with the fewest permissions. Using lower
permissioned accounts helps improve security for your organization. Global Administrator is
a highly privileged role that should be limited to emergency scenarios when you can't use an
existing role. To learn more, see About admin roles in the Microsoft 365 admin center.
Comparing MFA methods
The following table shows the results of enabling MFA with security defaults, Conditional Access
policies, or per-user account settings.
ﾉ Expand table
Method Method enabled Method disabled Available authentication
methods
Security defaults If security defaults is turned After you turn off Microsoft Authenticator app
on, you can create new security defaults, you or any non-Microsoft
Conditional Access policies, can turn on authentication app that
but you can't turn them on. Conditional Access supports OATH TOTP.
policies.
Conditional Access If one or more Conditional If there are no Microsoft Authenticator app
policies Access policies exist in any Conditional Access or any non-Microsoft
state (Off, On, or Report policies, you can authentication app that
only), you can't turn on enable security supports OATH TOTP.
security defaults. defaults.
Other authentication
methods might also be
available, depending on the
configured authentication
strength.

--- Page 1331 of 2193 ---
Method Method enabled Method disabled Available authentication
methods
Legacy per-user Overrides security defaults Overridden by User-specified during MFA
MFA (not and Conditional Access security defaults or registration
recommended) policies requiring MFA at Conditional Access
each sign-in. policies
Next steps
Admins:
Set up MFA for Microsoft 365
Admin account security in Microsoft 365 for business
Users: Set up your Microsoft 365 sign-in for multifactor authentication and the following
video:
https://learn-video.azurefd.net/vod/player?id=eb0acd2a-edf5-4c1d-8e72-
e3254bc7dc12&locale=en-us&embedUrl=%2Fmicrosoft-365%2Fadmin%2Fsecurity-and-
compliance%2Fmulti-factor-authentication-microsoft-365
Related content
Turn on multifactor authentication (video)
Turn on multifactor authentication for your phone (video)
Last updated on 10/10/2025

--- Page 1332 of 2193 ---
Set up multifactor authentication for
Microsoft 365
Multifactor authentication (also known as MFA, two-factor authentication, or 2FA) requires a
second verification method for user sign-ins and improves account security.
This article contains instructions to set up MFA using the available options:
Security defaults: Available in all Microsoft 365 organizations via Microsoft Entra ID Free.
Conditional Access policies: Available in Microsoft 365 organizations with Microsoft Entra ID
P1 or P2.
Legacy per-user MFA (not recommended): Available in all Microsoft 365 organizations via
Microsoft Entra ID Free.
For information about the different options for MFA in Microsoft 365, see Multifactor
authentication in Microsoft 365
What do you need to know before you begin?
You must have appropriate permissions assigned before you can complete the procedures
in this article. Here are some options:
Microsoft Entra permissions:
Turn on or turn off security defaults: Membership in the Global Administrator or
Security Administrator roles.
Create and manage Conditional Access policies: Membership in the Global
Administrator or Conditional Access Administrator roles.
） Important
Microsoft recommends that you use roles with the fewest permissions. Using lower
permissioned accounts helps improve security for your organization. Global
Administrator is a highly privileged role that should be limited to emergency
scenarios when you can't use an existing role.
To use security defaults or Conditional Access, you need to turn off legacy per-user MFA for
users in your organization. If your organization's subscription was started after 2019, legacy

--- Page 1333 of 2193 ---
per-user MFA is most likely not turned on. For more information, see Enable per-user
Microsoft Entra multifactor authentication to secure sign-in events.
７ Note
If you have non-Microsoft directory services with Active Directory Federation Services (AD
FS) configured before July 2019, set up the Azure MFA Server. For more information, see
Advanced scenarios with Microsoft Entra multifactor authentication and non-Microsoft
VPN solutions.
Manage security defaults
Microsoft 365 tenants created after October 2019 have security defaults turned on by default. To
view or change the current status of security defaults in your organization, follow these steps:
1. In the Microsoft Entra admin center , go to Identity > Overview. Or, to go directly to the
Microsoft Entra overview page .
2. On the overview page, select the Properties tab, and the go to the Security defaults section
at the bottom of the tab.
Depending on the current status of security defaults, one of the following experiences is
available:
Security defaults is on: The following text is shown and Manage security defaults is
available:
Your organization is protected by security defaults.
One or more Conditional Access policies exist in Microsoft Entra ID P1 or P2: The
following text is shown and Manage security defaults isn't available:
Your organization is currently using Conditional Access policies which prevents
you from enabling security defaults. You can use Conditional Access to configure
custom policies that enable the same behavior provided by security defaults.
Manage Conditional Access takes you to the Policies page where you can manage
Conditional Access policies. To switch between security defaults and Conditional

--- Page 1334 of 2193 ---
Access policies, see the Revert to security defaults from Conditional Access policies
section in this article.
Security defaults is off: The following text is shown and Manage security defaults is
available:
Your organization is not protected by security defaults.
3. If Manage security defaults is available, select it to turn on or turn off security defaults.
In the Security defaults flyout that opens, do one of the following:
Turn on security defaults: In the Security defaults dropdown list, select Enabled, and
then select Save.
Turn off security defaults: In the Security defaults dropdown list, select Disabled. In
the Reason for disabling section, select My organization is planning to use
Conditional Access.
When you're finished in the Security defaults flyout, select Save
Ｕ Caution
Don't turn off security defaults unless you're switching to Conditional Access policies in
Microsoft Entra ID P1 or P2.
Manage Conditional Access policies
If your Microsoft 365 organization includes Microsoft Entra ID P1 or later, you can use
Conditional Access instead of security defaults for a higher security posture and more granular
control. For example:
Microsoft 365 Business Premium (Microsoft Entra ID P1)
Microsoft 365 E3 (Microsoft Entra ID P1)
Microsoft 365 E5 (Microsoft Entra ID P2)
An add-on subscription
For more information, see Plan a Conditional Access deployment.
Switching from security defaults to Conditional Access policies requires the following basic steps:
1. Turn off security defaults.

--- Page 1335 of 2193 ---
2. Create baseline Conditional Access policies to recreate the security policies in security
defaults.
3. Adjust MFA exclusions.
4. Create new Conditional Access policies.
 Tip
If security defaults are turned on, you can create new Conditional Access policies, but you
can't turn them on. After you turn off security defaults, you can turn on Conditional Access
policies.
Step 1: Turn off security defaults
Security defaults and Conditional Access policies can't be turned on at the same time, so the first
thing you need to do is turn off security defaults.
For instructions, see the previous Manage security defaults section in this article.
Step 2: Create baseline Conditional Access policies to recreate
the policies in security defaults
The policies in security defaults are the Microsoft-recommended baseline for all organizations, so
it's important to recreate these policies in Conditional Access before you create other Conditional
Access policies.
The following templates in Conditional Access recreate the policies in security defaults:
Require MFA for all users
Require MFA for administrators (To improve your security posture, see Require phishing-
resistant MFA for administrators)
Block legacy authentication
Require MFA for Azure management
To create Conditional Access policies using these templates, follow these steps:
1. In the Microsoft Entra admin center, go to the Conditional Access | Policies page .
2. On the Conditional Access | Policies page, select New policy from template.

--- Page 1336 of 2193 ---
3. On the New policy from template page, verify the Select a template tab is selected. On the
Select a template tab, verify the Secure foundation tab is selected.
4. On the Secure foundation tab, select one of the required templates (for example, Require
multifactor authentication for all users), and then select Review + Create.
 Tip
To find and select the Require phishing-resistant multifactor authentication for
admins template, use the Search box.
5. On the Review + Create tab, view or configure the following settings:
Basics section:
Policy name: Accept the default name or customize it.
Policy state: Select On
Assignments section: In the Users and groups section, notice the Excluded users
value is Current user and you can't change it. Only emergency access accounts should
be excluded from MFA requirements. For more information, see the next step.
When you're finished on the Review + Create tab, select Create.
The policy you created is shown on the Conditional Access | Policies page.
6. Repeat the previous steps for the remaining templates.
Step 3: Adjust MFA exclusions
By default, the Conditional Access policies you created in the previous step contains exclusions
for the account you were signed in as, and you can't modify exclusions during policy creation.
We recommend at least two emergency access admin accounts in every organization that aren't
assigned to specific individuals and are only used in emergencies. These accounts need to be
excluded from MFA requirements.
You might need to remove the current account exclusions and/or add emergency access account
exclusions to the following policies:
Require MFA for all users
Require MFA for administrators or Require phishing-resistant MFA for administrators
Require MFA for Azure management

--- Page 1337 of 2193 ---
Before you create custom Conditional Access policies, create your emergency access accounts
and then use the following steps to adjust the exclusions for MFA-related policies:
1. On the Conditional Access | Policies page , select one of the MFA-related policies that you
created in the previous step (for example, Require multifactor authentication for Azure
management).
2. On the policy details page that opens, select All users included and specific users excluded
in the Assignments > Users section.
3. In the information that appears, select the Exclude tab.
4. On the Exclude tab, the following settings are configured:
Select the users and groups to exempt from the policy: The value Users and groups
is selected.
Select excluded users and groups: The value 1 user is shown, and the user account
that was used to create the policy is shown.
To remove the current account from the excluded users list, select > Remove.
The value changes to 0 users and groups selected and the warning text Select at least
one user or group appears.
To add emergency access accounts to the excluded users list, select 0 users and
groups selected. In the Select excluded users and groups flyout that opens, find
and select the emergency access accounts to exclude. The selected users are shown
in the Selected pane. When you're finished, select Select.
Back on the policy details page, select Save.
5. Repeat the previous steps for the remaining MFA-related policies.
 Tip
The Block legacy authentication policy probably needs no exclusions, so you can use the
previous steps to remove the existing exclusion. Just uncheck Users and groups in Step 4.
For more information about user exclusions in Conditional Access policies, see User
exclusions.
Step 4: Create new Conditional Access policies

--- Page 1338 of 2193 ---
Now you can create Conditional Access policies that meet your business needs. For more
information, see Plan a Conditional Access deployment.
Revert to security defaults from Conditional Access policies
Security defaults are turned off when you're using Conditional Access policies. If one or more
Conditional Access policies exist in any state (Off, On, or Report only), you can't turn on security
defaults. You need to delete all existing Conditional Access policies before you can turn on
security defaults.
Ｕ Caution
Before you delete any Conditional Access policies, be sure to record their settings.
To delete Conditional Access policies, use the following steps:
1. On the Conditional Access | Policies page , select the policy that you want to delete.
2. In the details page that opens, select Delete at the top of the page.
3. In the Are you sure? dialog that opens, select Yes.
After you delete all Conditional Access policies, you can turn on security defaults as described in
Manage security defaults.
Manage legacy per-user MFA
We strongly recommend using security defaults or Conditional Access for MFA in Microsoft 365.
If you can't, your last option is MFA for individual Microsoft Entra ID accounts via Microsoft Entra
ID Free.
For instructions, see Enable per-user Microsoft Entra multifactor authentication to secure sign-in
events.
Next steps
Admins: Admin account security in Microsoft 365 for business
Users:
What is multifactor authentication

--- Page 1339 of 2193 ---
Sign-in after registration
If you can't sign in, see How end users can perform account recovery in Microsoft Entra
ID
Change how you do additional verification
Set up your Microsoft 365 sign-in for multifactor authentication and the following
video:
https://learn-video.azurefd.net/vod/player?id=eb0acd2a-edf5-4c1d-8e72-
e3254bc7dc12&locale=en-us&embedUrl=%2Fmicrosoft-365%2Fadmin%2Fsecurity-and-
compliance%2Fset-up-multi-factor-authentication
Related content
Small business help & learning
YouTube: Microsoft 365 small business help
Set up multifactor authentication
Turn on multifactor authentication for your phone
Multifactor authentication for Microsoft 365
Last updated on 12/11/2025

--- Page 1340 of 2193 ---
Admin account security in Microsoft 365
for business
Applies to: ✅ Microsoft 365 Business Basic, ✅ Microsoft 365 Business Standard, ✅ Microsoft 365 Business
Premium, ✅ Microsoft 365 for Campaigns
Although multifactor authentication (MFA) is turned on by default for all accounts in Microsoft
365 for business organizations, administrator or admin accounts require extra security
considerations unrelated to MFA. Admin accounts have elevated privileges and are valuable
targets for attackers. At the same time, admin accounts are fundamental to the operation and
management of your organization.
The account you used to enroll in Microsoft 365 for business is automatically a Global
Administrator (also known as a global admin). Global admins have ultimate control over user
accounts and all the other settings in the Microsoft admin center
(https://admin.microsoft.com ). But there are many different kinds of admin capabilities with
varying levels of access. For more information, see About admin roles in the Microsoft 365
admin center.
Use the following guidance to make the most of admin accounts while protecting your
organization from attackers:
Be sure to have more than one admin account: We recommend at least two admin
emergency access accounts in every organization that aren't assigned to specific
individuals and are only used in emergencies. These accounts also need to be excluded
from MFA requirements and therefore should have long, complex passwords (16 or more
characters). These accounts are also known as "break glass accounts."
For admin account creation instructions, see Add an administrator.
） Important
Limit the number of admin accounts your organization. Too many admin accounts
provide attackers with more opportunities to compromise your organization.
Use the concept least privilege, which means you give users only the permissions
required to do their jobs. For example, if a user needs to create user accounts, don't
add them to the Global Administrator role; add them to the User Administrator role
instead. For more information, see the following articles:
Enhance security with the principle of least privilege
About admin roles in the Microsoft 365 admin center

--- Page 1341 of 2193 ---
Use ordinary user accounts for regular work tasks: Admins should use non-admin
accounts as primary accounts to sign in to their computers and do regular tasks like
checking email and using Microsoft 365 Apps. Use your admin account only as needed.
Before using admin accounts, close all unrelated browser sessions and apps, including
personal email accounts. You can also use InPrivate, Incognito, or Private browsing
mode for admin tasks.
After completing admin tasks, be sure to sign out of the browser session.
For account creation instructions, see Add users and assign licenses at the same time.
 Tip
Ordinary user accounts need Microsoft 365 for business licenses, but you don't need
to license admin only accounts.
Use a naming convention that doesn't advertise the fact that an account has admin
privileges. For example, your regular user account is
alice.chavez@contoso.onmicrosoft.com, and your admin account is
alicec@contoso.onmicrosoft.com.
Use passwordless authentication for admin accounts: For more information, see Enable
passwordless sign-in with Authenticator.
Microsoft 365 Business Basic and Microsoft 365 Business Standard organizations
support the following passwordless authentication options via Microsoft Entra ID Free:
The Microsoft Authenticator app with push notifications and biometric or PIN
verification.
Passkeys (FIDO2)
Windows Hello for Business
Microsoft 365 Business Premium via Microsoft Entra ID P1 also allows you to require
passwordless authentication and authentication strength for admin accounts using
Conditional Access. For more information, see Conditional Access authentication
strength.
Last updated on 01/06/2026

--- Page 1342 of 2193 ---
Manage and monitor priority accounts
Summarize this article for me
Every Microsoft 365 organization contains essential users like executives, leaders, managers, or
others who have access to sensitive, proprietary, or high priority information. You can
designate up to 250 of these users as priority accounts and (depending on your subscription)
use app-specific features that give them extra protection and visibility.
This article describes how to tag users and groups as priority accounts, and the extra
protections and visibility they get as priority accounts.
 Tip
For security best practices for high value accounts, see Security recommendations for
priority accounts in cloud organizations.
What do you need to know before you begin?
The maximum number of priority accounts is 250.
You need to be assigned permissions before you can do the procedures in this article. You
have the following options:
Microsoft Defender XDR Unified role based access control (RBAC) (If Email &
collaboration > Defender for Office 365 permissions is Active. Affects the
Defender portal only, not PowerShell): Authorization and settings/System
settings/manage or Authorization and settings/System settings/Read-only.
Email & collaboration permissions in the Microsoft Defender portal:
Apply and remove the Priority account tag from users: Membership in the Security
Administrator and Exchange Admin role groups.
Microsoft Entra permissions: Membership in the Global Administrator* or Security
Administrator roles gives users the required permissions and permissions for other
features in Microsoft 365.
） Important
* Microsoft recommends that you use roles with the fewest permissions. Using lower
permissioned accounts helps improve security for your organization. Global Administrator
is a highly privileged role that should be limited to emergency scenarios when you can't
use an existing role.

--- Page 1343 of 2193 ---
Manage priority accounts
You can manage priority accounts in the Microsoft Defender portal or the Microsoft 365 admin
center.
Manage priority accounts in the Microsoft Defender portal
1. In the Microsoft Defender portal at https://security.microsoft.com , go to Settings >
Email & collaboration > User tags. Or, to go directly to the User tags page, use
https://security.microsoft.com/securitysettings/userTags .
2. On the User tags page, do one of the following steps to select and edit the Priority
account tag:
Select the check box next to the first column of the Priority account row, and then
select the Edit action that appears.
Click anywhere in the Priority account row other than the check box. In the details
flyout that opens, select Edit at the top of the flyout
3. The Edit tag Priority account wizard opens. On the Assign members page, take either of
the following actions:
Add members: Do either of the following steps:
Select Add members. In the Add members flyout that opens, do any of the
following steps to add individual users or groups in the Search users and groups
to add box:
Click in the box and scroll through the list.
Start typing a name to filter the list, and then select the value below the box.
To add more members, click in an empty area in the box and repeat the previous
step.
To remove individual entries from the box, select next to the entry.
When you're finished on the Add members flyout, select Add.
Back on the Assign members page, the users and groups that you added are
listed by Name and Type.
Select Import to select a text file that contains the email addresses of the
users or groups (one entry per line).

--- Page 1344 of 2193 ---
Remove members: In the list of members on the Assign members page, select
Delete in the entry row.
When you're finished on the Assign members page, select Next.
4. On the Review tag page, review your settings. You can select Edit in each section to
modify the settings within the section. Or you can select Back or the specific page in the
wizard.
When you're finished on the Review tag page, select Submit.
5. On the Tag Priority account updated page, you can select the links to add a new tag or
manage the tag members.
When you're finished on the New tag created page, select Done.
 Tip
It can take up to 8 hours to completely apply tags.
Manage priority accounts in the Microsoft admin center
1. In the Microsoft admin center at https://admin.cloud.microsoft , go to the Priority
accounts page at https://admin.microsoft.com/Adminportal/Home#/priorityaccounts .
If you prefer the long way, go to Users > Active users > on the Active users page, select
More actions > Manage priority accounts.
2. On the Priority accounts page, take either of the following actions:
Add members:
a. Select Tag accounts. In the Tag user accounts as priority flyout that opens,
select one of the following values in How would you like to search for accounts?:
Name and email address (default)
Job title
Distribution list
When you're finished, select Next.
b. In the flyout that opens, find and select the users or distributions groups, and
then select Tag.

--- Page 1345 of 2193 ---
c. The process starts over on the Tag user accounts as priority flyout with the
Priority accounts tagged total updated (the maximum is 250). Select Next to tag
more users or distribution groups, or select Cancel to finish.
Back on the Priority accounts page, the users or groups you select are listed.
Remove members: In the list of members on the Priority accounts page, do either
of the following steps:
Select one or more entries from the list by selecting the check box next to the
Display name column, select the Remove tag action that appears, and then
select Remove in the confirmation dialog that appears.
⋮
Between the Display name and Username column values of an entry, select
More actions > Remove tag, and then select Remove in the confirmation
dialog that appears.
Monitor priority accounts
After you tag users or groups as priority accounts, they get the following protections and
visibility in Microsoft 365:
Visibility in reporting in Microsoft Defender for Office 365 Plan 1 or Plan 2: Microsoft
365 Business Premium and other subscriptions that include Defender for Office 365 (for
example, Microsoft 365 E5 or an add-on subscription) support priority accounts as tags in
filters in alerts, reports, and investigations. For more information, see User tags in
Microsoft Defender for Office 365.
Priority account protection in Defender for Office 365 Plan 2: A natural question is,
"Aren't all users a priority? Why not designate all users as priority accounts for priority
account protection?" Yes, all users are a priority, but priority account protection in
Defender for Office 365 Plan 2 (for example, in Business Premium with the Microsoft
Defender Suite for Business Premium add-on) offers the following benefits:
Other heuristics: Our analysis of mail flow in the Microsoft datacenters indicates that
mail flow patterns for company executives are different than the average user. Priority
account protection offers other heuristics specifically tailored to company executives
that don't benefit regular users.
Extra visibility in reporting: Priority account protection as a filter allows you to
specifically target your investigations.
For more information, see Configure and review priority account protection in Microsoft
Defender for Office 365.
 Tip

--- Page 1346 of 2193 ---
When you apply priority account protection to a mailbox, you should also apply
priority account protection to users with access to the mailbox. For example, the CEO
and their executive assistant.
Email monitoring in Exchange Online: Email monitoring features for priority accounts
have the following requirements:
At least 5,000 licenses in any combination of the following products:
Office 365 E3
Microsoft 365 E3
Office 365 E3
Microsoft 365 E5
For example, your organization has 3,000 Office 365 E3 licenses and 2,500 Microsoft
365 E5 licenses, for a total of 5,500 licenses from the qualifying products.
At least 50 monthly active users for one or more core workloads:
Microsoft Teams
OneDrive
SharePoint
Exchange Online
Microsoft 365 productivity apps
If your organization meets both of these requirements, you can use the following email
monitoring features for priority accounts:
Exchange Online priority account monitoring: You can view health of priority
accounts for scenarios like Exchange licensing, mailbox storage, message limit, and
mail delivery. For more information, see Priority accounts monitoring scenarios.
Premium Mail Flow Monitoring: Healthy mail flow can be critical to business success,
and delivery delays or failures can have a negative effect on the business. You can
choose a threshold for failed or delayed emails, receive alerts when that threshold is
exceeded, and view a report of email issues for priority accounts. For more
information, see Email issues for priority accounts report in the new EAC
More information
Using Priority Accounts in Microsoft 365
Last updated on 09/24/2025

--- Page 1347 of 2193 ---
Email and collaboration security in
Microsoft 365 for business
09/09/2025
Applies to: ✅ Microsoft 365 Business Basic, ✅ Microsoft 365 Business Standard, ✅ Microsoft 365 Business
Premium, ✅ Microsoft 365 for Campaigns
This article describes the configuration steps for email and collaboration you need to do in the
earliest days of your Microsoft 365 for business organization.
Although your organization includes a default level of protection for email and collaboration
from the moment you create it, the steps in this article give you an actionable plan to unleash
the full protection capabilities of Microsoft 365. After you complete the steps, you can also use
this article to show management that you're maximizing your investment in Microsoft 365.
Requirements
Default email protections are included in all Microsoft 365 organizations with cloud mailboxes.
Microsoft 365 Business Premium includes Microsoft Defender for Office 365 Plan 1 with more
mail and collaboration protections. For detailed comparisons of the default email protections
for cloud mailboxes and Defender for Office 365, see Microsoft Defender for Office 365
overview.
Roles and permissions
To configure email and collaboration protection features, you need permissions. The following
table lists the permissions that allow you to do the procedures in this article:
ﾉ Expand table
Role or role group Learn more
Global Administrator in Microsoft Entra* Microsoft Entra built-in roles
Organization Management in Email & Role groups in Microsoft Defender for Office 365
collaboration role groups
Security Administrator in Microsoft Entra Microsoft Entra built-in roles
Security Administrator in Email & collaboration Email & collaboration permissions in Microsoft
role groups Defender for Office 365
Exchange Online Organization Management Permissions in Exchange Online

--- Page 1348 of 2193 ---
Role or role group Learn more
SharePoint Administrator in Microsoft Entra About the SharePoint Administrator role in Microsoft
365
） Important
* Microsoft recommends that you use roles with the fewest permissions. Using lower
permissioned accounts helps improve security for your organization. Global Administrator
is a highly privileged role that should be limited to emergency scenarios when you can't
use an existing role.
Configure email authentication for your Microsoft
365 domains
Configure SPF, DKIM, and DMARC records (in that order) for all custom Microsoft 365 domains
(including parked domains and subdomains). If necessary, configure any trusted ARC sealers.
For more information, see Configure email authentication for your Microsoft 365 domains.
Configure threat policies
Turn on and use the Standard and/or Strict preset security policies for all recipients. Or, if
business needs dictate, create and use custom threat policies instead, but check them
periodically using the configuration analyzer.
For more information, see Configure threat policies.
Identify priority accounts
Identify and tag the appropriate users in your organization as priority accounts for easier
identification in reports and investigations.
For more information, see Priority accounts and user tags.
Review and configure user reported message
settings

--- Page 1349 of 2193 ---
Use the built-in Report button in Outlook or a supported non-Microsoft tool so users can
report false positives and false negatives in Outlook, and so those reported messages are
available to admins on the User-reported tab of the Submissions page in the Defender portal.
Configure the organization so reported messages go to a specified reporting mailbox, to
Microsoft, or both (default).
For more information, see Review and configure user reported message settings.
Prepare for block and allow entries
Familiarize yourself with the procedures to block and allow messages, files, and URLs in the
Microsoft Defender portal.
For more information, see Block and allow entries.
Adjust sharing settings for SharePoint and OneDrive files and
folders
By default, sharing levels are set to the most permissive level for both SharePoint and
OneDrive. We recommend changing the default settings to better protect your business:
1. In the Sharepoint admin center at https://admin.microsoft.com/sharepoint , go to
Policies > Sharing. Or, to go directly to the Sharing page, use
https://admin.microsoft.com/sharepoint?page=sharing .
2. On the Sharing page, configure the following settings:
External sharing section > Content can be shared with: We recommend Least
permissive for both SharePoint and OneDrive to prevent external sharing.
File and folder links section:
Choose the type of link that's selected by default when users share files and
folders in SharePoint and OneDrive: Select Specific people (only the people the
user specifies).
Choose the permission that's selected by default for sharing links: Select View.
Other settings: Verify the following settings are selected:
Show owners the names of people who viewed their files in OneDrive
Let site owners choose to display the names of people who viewed files or
pages in SharePoint
When you're finished on the Sharing page, select Save.
For more information, see Manage sharing settings.

--- Page 1350 of 2193 ---
Set up and review alert policies and alerts
Alert policies are useful for tracking user and admin activities, potential malware threats, and
data loss incidents in your business. Your subscription includes a set of default policies, but you
can also create custom policies. For example, if you store an important file in SharePoint that
you don't want to share externally, you can create an alert policy to notify you if someone
shares it.
1. In the Microsoft Defender portal at https://security.microsoft.com , go to Email &
collaboration > Policies & rules > Alert policy. Or, to go directly to the Alert policy page,
use https://security.microsoft.com/alertpoliciesv2 .
2. On the Alert policy page, review the default policies:
Click on the Name column header to sort the alert policies by name.
Use Filter to filter the alert policies by Category.
Click on the Name value of a policy to open the details flyout for more information
and notification options.
3. The alerts that result from alert policies are available on the Alerts page in the Defender
portal at Incidents & alerts > Alerts or directly at https://security.microsoft.com/alerts .
For more information, see Alert policies in the Microsoft Defender portal and View alerts.
Manage organization calendar sharing
You can help people share their calendars securely by limiting the level of detail they can share
(for example, free/busy times only).
1. In the Microsoft 365 admin center at https://admin.microsoft.com , go to Show all >
Settings > Org settings > Services tab. If you don't see Settings, select Show all. Or, to
go directly to the Services tab on the Org settings page, use
https://admin.microsoft.com/#/Settings/Services .
2. On the Services tab on the Org settings page, select Calendar.
3. In the Calendar flyout that opens, configure the following settings:
External sharing section:
Let your users share their calendars with people outside of your organization
who have Office 365 or Exchange: We recommend clearing this setting.

--- Page 1351 of 2193 ---

If you leave this setting selected, Allow anyone to access calendars with an email
invitation is also available. For this setting, we recommend Show calendar
free/busy information with time only.

When you're finished in the Calendar flyout, select Save.
If your users are allowed to share their calendars, see Share your calendar in Outlook on the
web .

--- Page 1352 of 2193 ---
Protect users against phishing and other
attacks in Microsoft 365 for business
09/09/2025
Applies to: ✅ Microsoft 365 Business Basic, ✅ Microsoft 365 Business Standard, ✅ Microsoft 365 Business
Premium, ✅ Microsoft 365 for Campaigns
In addition to the protections offered by Microsoft 365 for business, there are other steps all
users can take you help protect the organization. Make sure everyone understands the
following concepts:
Spam or junk mail: There are many reasons you might receive junk email and not all junk
mail is harmful. However, you can reduce the risks of attacks by taking steps to reduce
the amount of junk mail you receive.
Phishing: Phishing is an email that seems legitimate but is an attempt to get your
personal information, credentials, or money.
Spoofing: Spoofed messages appear to come from someone other than the actual
sender. For example, you have you ever received an email that appears to come from
you?
Malware: Malicious software that can be installed on your computer after you select a link
or open an attached file in an email message. There are various types of malware (for
example, ransomware, when your computer is taken over), but you don't want any of
them.
Use the following best practices to help users fend off attacks through email.
Reduce spam: Use the following best practices to help reduce the amount of unwanted
mail you receive: 10 tips on how to help reduce spam .
Report suspicious messages: Use the built-in Report button in Outlook on all platforms
or Outlook on the web (formerly known as Outlook Web App or OWA).
Admins configure whether the messages are sent to Microsoft for analysis, to a
designated reporting mailbox, or both as described in User reported settings.
Admins can also see user reported messages on the User reported tab of the
Submissions page in the Microsoft Defender portal as described in Admin options for
user reported messages.
Avoid phishing: Read about five common types of scams in Phishing and suspicious
behavior in Outlook . And use the following best practices:
Never reply to email asking for personal or account information.
Never select links in suspicious messages.

--- Page 1353 of 2193 ---
Never open file attachments in suspicious messages.
If an email appears to come from a company, verify the message by using other
resources to find and contact the company (don't use links or contact information in
the email).
Search the web for the email subject line to see if anyone else reported the message as
a scam.
Download this infographic: The infographic contains tips for admins and users:
PDF | PowerPoint
Stay secure and private at work .

--- Page 1354 of 2193 ---
Microsoft 365 admin center usage
reports overview
Check out Microsoft 365 small business help on YouTube.
Microsoft 365 admin center usage reports provide insight into how people in your organization
use Microsoft 365 for business services. For example, you can see who uses a service to the fullest
extent and who barely uses it and might not need a Microsoft 365 license.
７ Note
Usage reports don't include perpetual license models.
Usage reports are generally available for the last 7, 30, 90, and 180 days. For details about specific
report availability, see the individual usage report articles. Data doesn't exist for all reporting
periods right away. The reports typically become available within 24 to 72 hours, but might
sometimes take several days to become available.
Watch: Act on a usage report in Microsoft 365
Check out this and other videos on our YouTube channel .
https://learn-video.azurefd.net/vod/player?id=f8007c63-a8a0-44ee-ab5b-
0ac799333496&locale=en-us&embedUrl=%2Fmicrosoft-365%2Fadmin%2Factivity-
reports%2Factivity-reports
Before you begin
To view usage reports, you must have one of the following permissions:
Global Administrator
） Important
Microsoft recommends that you use roles with the fewest permissions. Using roles with
the fewest permissions helps improve security for your organization. Global
Administrator is a highly privileged role that should be limited to emergency scenarios

--- Page 1355 of 2193 ---
when you can't use an existing role. For more information, see About administrator
roles in the Microsoft 365 admin center.
Exchange Administrator
SharePoint Administrator
Usage Summary Reports Reader (with no user details). By default, this role has read access
to user, groups, and other settings in the Microsoft 365 admin center, because the role is
based on Microsoft Entra.
Reports Reader
Teams Administrator
Teams Communications Administrator
User Experience Success Manager (with no user details)
AI Administrator
For more information, see About admin roles and Assign admin roles.
View the Reports dashboard
1. Go to the Microsoft 365 admin center .
2. In the navigation menu, select Reports. If you don't see Reports, select Show all, and then
select Reports.
3. Select Usage .
4. Select View more from the at-a-glance activity card for a service (such as email or
OneDrive) to see the report details page. On that page, different reports for the service are
provided in tabs.

--- Page 1356 of 2193 ---

Available usage reports in the Microsoft 365
admin center
Depending on your subscription, the following reports are available in all environments:
ﾉ Expand table
Report Public GCC GCC- DoD Microsoft 365 operated by
High 21Vianet
Active Users Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes
Microsoft browser usage Yes N/A1 N/A1 N/A1 N/A1
Microsoft 365 Copilot readiness Yes N/A1 N/A1 N/A2 N/A2
Microsoft 365 Copilot usage Yes Yes N/A1 N/A2 N/A2
Microsoft 365 Copilot Agent usage Yes N/A1 N/A1 N/A2 N/A2
Microsoft 365 Copilot Chat usage Yes N/A1 N/A1 N/A2 N/A2
Microsoft 365 Copilot credits Yes N/A N/A N/A N/A
Microsoft Copilot Search usage Yes N/A1 N/A1 N/A1 N/A2
Email activity Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes
Email apps usage Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes
Mailbox usage Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes

--- Page 1357 of 2193 ---
Report Public GCC GCC- DoD Microsoft 365 operated by
High 21Vianet
Microsoft 365 Groups Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes
Microsoft 365 Apps usage Yes Yes N/A1 N/A1 Yes
Office activations Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes
OneDrive user activity Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes
OneDrive usage Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes
SharePoint site usage Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes
SharePoint activity Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes
SharePoint storage Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes
Microsoft Teams user activity Yes Yes Yes Yes N/A1
Microsoft Teams device usage Yes Yes Yes Yes N/A1
Microsoft Teams team activity Yes Yes Yes Yes N/A1
Viva Engage activity Yes Yes N/A2 N/A2 N/A2
Viva Engage device usage Yes Yes N/A2 N/A2 N/A2
Viva Engage groups activity Yes Yes N/A2 N/A2 N/A2
Forms activity Yes Yes N/A1 N/A1 N/A1
Dynamics 365 Customer Voice activity Yes Yes N/A2 N/A2 N/A2
Skype for Business Online activity N/A2 N/A2 N/A2 N/A2 N/A2
Skype for Business Online conference N/A2 N/A2 N/A2 N/A2 N/A2
organized activity
Skype for Business Online conference N/A2 N/A2 N/A2 N/A2 N/A2
participant activity
Skype for Business Online peer-to-peer N/A2 N/A2 N/A2 N/A2 N/A2
activity
Viva Learning activity Yes N/A2 N/A2 N/A2 N/A2
Viva Insights activity Yes Yes N/A1 N/A1 N/A2
Project activity Yes Yes N/A1 N/A1 N/A2
Visio activity Yes Yes N/A1 N/A1 N/A2

--- Page 1358 of 2193 ---
Report Public GCC GCC- DoD Microsoft 365 operated by
High 21Vianet
Viva Goals activity Yes N/A2 N/A2 N/A2 N/A2
N/A1: The report will be released in the future. The Microsoft 365 Roadmap will be updated
before the release.
N/A2: The service isn't available in the environment; hence, there's no plan to release the report.
View licensing information
To see how many licenses you assigned and unassigned, use the following steps:
1. Go to the Microsoft 365 admin center .
2. In the navigation menu, select Billing > Licenses .
To see who is licensed, unlicensed, or a guest, use the following steps:
1. Go to the Microsoft 365 admin center .
2. In the navigation menu, select Users > Active users .
View usage information for a specific user
Use the service reports to research to what extent a specific user is using the service. For example,
to find out how much mailbox storage a specific user consumed, open the Mailbox usage report,
and sort the users by name. If you have thousands of users, export the report to Excel, Power BI,
or use the Microsoft Graph reports API.
You can't generate a report where you enter a user's account and then get a list of which services
they're using and how much.
New users sometimes display as unknown. This problem usually happens because of occasional
delays in creating user profiles.
Show user, group, or site details in usage reports
Reports provide information about your organization's usage data. By default, all reports hide
user information such as usernames, display names, groups, and sites to help companies support
local privacy laws.
By default, your user list looks like the following screenshot:

--- Page 1359 of 2193 ---

The organization setting that hides or shows this information applies to the following properties:
ﾉ Expand table
Property Attributes
Properties for user-level in many reports User IDs, Usernames, and User principal names
Properties for OneDrive and SharePoint site usage reports Site IDs and Site URLs
Properties for Microsoft 365 apps Group usage report Group IDs and Group names
Properties for Viva Engage group usage report Group name and Group admin
Properties for Teams team usage report Team names
Other reports, such as some reports in the Microsoft Teams admin center, follow this organization
setting.
Global administrators can update the settings to display concealed information if your
organization's privacy practices allow it.
） Important
Microsoft recommends that you use roles with the fewest permissions. Using roles with the
fewest permissions helps improve security for your organization. Global Administrator is a
highly privileged role that should be limited to emergency scenarios when you can't use an
existing role. For more information, see About administrator roles in the Microsoft 365
admin center.
It takes a few minutes for these changes to take effect. This setting also applies to the Microsoft
365 usage reports in Microsoft Graph and Power BI and to the usage reports in Microsoft Teams
Admin center. Showing identifiable user information is a logged event in the Microsoft Purview
portal audit log.

--- Page 1360 of 2193 ---
Use the Microsoft 365 admin center to show user, group, or
site details
1. Go to the Microsoft 365 admin center .
2. In the navigation menu, select Settings. If you don't see Settings, select Show all, and then
select Settings.
3. Select Org Settings .
4. On the Services tab, select Reports.
5. In the Reports panel, select the checkbox next to Display Concealed user, group, and site
names in all reports.
6. Select Save.
Use adminReportSettings to show user, group, or site details
Admins can use an API in all environments to change this setting without needing to visit the
Microsoft 365 admin center. For more information, see adminReportSettings resource type.
Two methods are approved for this API:

The report only contains a Privacy Setting property. For more information about Graph API, see
Use the Microsoft Graph API. You can use the Software Development Kit (SDK) or directly call the
API by using any programming language with network ability, like Graph Explorer.
What happens to usage data when I delete a
user account?
When you delete a user account, Microsoft deletes that user's usage data within 30 days. The
usage chart totals still include deleted users for the periods they were active, but they don't
appear in the User Details table.

--- Page 1361 of 2193 ---
However, when you select a particular day (up to 28 days from the current date), the report
shows the user's usage for that day in the User Details table.
How do I interpret the last activity date in user, group,
or site details in the usage reports?
The last activity date in user, group, or site details represents the most recent date on which a
user performed any intentional activity within the app, regardless of the selected time period of
the past 7, 30, 90, or 180 days.
Related content
Microsoft 365 usage analytics (article)
Customize the reports in Microsoft 365 usage analytics (article)
Working with Microsoft 365 usage reports in Microsoft Graph beta (article)
Working with Microsoft 365 usage reports in Microsoft Graph v1.0 (article)
） Note: The author created this article with assistance from AI. Learn more
Last updated on 04/03/2026

--- Page 1362 of 2193 ---
Active Users report
The Active Users report provides details about how many product licenses people in your
organization use. You can drill into the report for information about which users are using what
products. This report helps administrators identify underutilized products or users who might
need extra training or information.
For general information about usage reports in the Microsoft 365 admin center, and to see a list
of all available reports, see Microsoft 365 admin center usage reports overview.
View the Active Users report
For information about the roles needed to view usage reports, see "Before you begin" in
Microsoft 365 admin center usage reports overview
1. Go to the Microsoft 365 admin center .
2. In the navigation menu, select Reports. If you don't see Reports, select Show all, and then
select Reports.
3. Select Usage .
4. On the Usage page, under Reports, select Microsoft 365 apps, and then select the Active
users tab.
Interpret the Active users report
The Active Users report displays trends over the last 7, 30, 90, or 180 days. However, if you select
a particular day in the report, the table shows data for up to 28 days from the current date (not
the date the report was generated). The data in each report usually covers up to the last 24 to 48
hours.


--- Page 1363 of 2193 ---
The Users chart shows daily active users in the reporting period separated by product. On the
Users chart, the X axis shows the selected reporting time period and the Y axis displays the daily
active users separated and color coded by license type.
The Activity chart shows you daily activity count in the reporting period separated by product.
On the Activity chart, the X axis shows the selected reporting time period and the Y axis displays
the daily activity count separated and color coded by license type.
The Services chart shows the count of users by activity type and service. On the Services activity
chart, the X axis displays the individual services your users are enabled for in the given time
period, and the Y axis is the count of users by activity status, color coded by activity status.
You can filter the series you see on each chart by selecting an item in the legend. Changing this
selection doesn't change the info in the grid table.
To add or remove columns from the report, select Choose columns.
７ Note
If your subscription is operated by 21Vianet in China, you don't see data for Viva Engage.
To export the report data into an Excel .csv file, select Export. This action exports the usage data
of all users and enables you to do simple sorting, filtering, and searching for further analysis.
The table displays a breakdown of the user activities at the per-user level.
ﾉ Expand table
Metric Definition
Username The identifier of the user.
Last active date for Exchange The date the user last used Exchange.
Last active date for OneDrive The date the user last used OneDrive.
Last active date for SharePoint The date the user last used SharePoint.
Last active date for Viva Engage The date the user last used Viva Engage.
Last active date for Microsoft Teams The date the user last used Microsoft Teams.
Exchange licenses Whether an Exchange license is assigned to the user.
OneDrive licenses Whether a OneDrive license is assigned to the user.

--- Page 1364 of 2193 ---
Metric Definition
SharePoint licenses Whether a Viva Engage license is assigned to the user.
Viva Engage licenses Whether a OneDrive license is assigned to the user.
Microsoft Teams licenses Whether a Microsoft Teams license is assigned to the user.
Deleted date The date the user was deleted.
License assign date for Exchange The date an Exchange license was assigned to the user.
License assign date for OneDrive The date a OneDrive license was assigned to the user.
License assign date for SharePoint The date a SharePoint license was assigned to the user.
License assign date for Viva Engage The date a Viva Engage Exchange license was assigned to the
user.
License assign date for Microsoft The date a Microsoft Teams license was assigned to the user.
Teams
７ Note
By default, user-specific information like usernames, display names, groups, and sites is
hidden in usage reports. To learn how to display this information in usage reports, see Show
user, group, or site details in usage reports.
） Note: The author created this article with assistance from AI. Learn more
Last updated on 05/19/2026

--- Page 1365 of 2193 ---
Microsoft Browser usage report
The Microsoft Browser usage report shows if users access Microsoft 365 online services through
Microsoft Edge. This report insight can help you migrate your organization to Microsoft Edge.
Usage reporting is based on an aggregate count of users in your organization that sign in to their
Microsoft 365 account and use the Microsoft Edge browser to access Microsoft 365 services.
For general information about usage reports in the Microsoft 365 admin center, and to see a list
of all available reports, see Microsoft 365 admin center usage reports overview.
View the Microsoft Browser usage report
For information about the roles needed to view usage reports, see "Before you begin" in
Microsoft 365 admin center usage reports overview
1. Go to the Microsoft 365 admin center .
2. In the navigation menu, select Reports. If you don't see Reports, select Show all, and then
select Reports.
3. Select Usage .
4. On the Usage page, under Reports, select Microsoft browser.
Interpret the Microsoft browser usage report
The report displays trends over the last 7, 30, 90, or 180 days. If you select a particular day in the
report, the per user data table updates to display users' usage on that day. However, this feature
only works for the most recent 28 days.


--- Page 1366 of 2193 ---
The Daily active users chart shows the daily user count for Microsoft Edge when used to access
to Microsoft 365 services.
The Active Users chart shows the total number of users accessing Microsoft 365 services while
using Microsoft Edge over the selected time period.
To add or remove columns from the report, select Choose columns.
To export the report data into an Excel .csv file, select Export. This action exports the usage data
of all users and enables you to do simple sorting, filtering, and searching for further analysis.
The following table contains definitions of the metrics available in the report.
ﾉ Expand table
Metric Definition
Username The email address of the user who connected to Microsoft 365 services using
Microsoft Edge.
Used Microsoft Displays a check mark if the Microsoft 365 services user connected with Microsoft
Edge Edge.
７ Note
By default, user-specific information like usernames, display names, groups, and sites is
hidden in usage reports. To learn how to display this information in usage reports, see Show
user, group, or site details in usage reports.
） Note: The author created this article with assistance from AI. Learn more
Last updated on 05/19/2026

--- Page 1367 of 2193 ---
Microsoft 365 Copilot readiness report
The Microsoft 365 Copilot readiness report helps you identify which users are technically eligible
for Copilot and streamline your organization's rollout. From the report, you can assign licenses
and monitor usage of Microsoft 365 apps that Copilot integrates best with. The report is available
within 72 hours, and once available, the usage data in the report can have up to a maximum of
72 hours latency.
For general information about usage reports in the Microsoft 365 admin center, and to see a list
of all available reports, see Microsoft 365 admin center usage reports overview.
View the Microsoft 365 Copilot Readiness and
usage report
For information about the roles needed to view usage reports, see "Before you begin" in
Microsoft 365 admin center usage reports overview
1. Go to the Microsoft 365 admin center .
2. In the navigation menu, select Reports. If you don't see Reports, select Show all, and then
select Reports.
3. Select Usage .
4. On the Usage page, under Reports, select Microsoft 365 Copilot, and then select Copilot.
5. On the report page, you can view Readiness on the first tab. Select the Usage tab to view
adoption and usage metrics.
Interpret the Readiness section in the Microsoft 365
Copilot report
Use the Microsoft 365 Copilot readiness report to see how ready your organization is to adopt
Microsoft 365 Copilot. The Readiness section shows your data over the past 28 days.
You can see the following summary charts in this report:

--- Page 1368 of 2193 ---

Total Prerequisite Licenses: The number is the sum of all users who have at least one license
assigned to them or who can be assigned a license. To learn more about the license types
eligible for Copilot, see Licensing requirements for Microsoft 365 Copilot.
Users on an eligible update channel: This number is the sum of all users enrolled in Current
Channel or Monthly Enterprise Channel for app updates in your organization. These users
can be assigned a Copilot license.

Assigned Licenses: This number is the sum of all users who are already assigned a Copilot
license in your organization.
Available Licenses: This number is the sum of all users who don't have a Copilot license
assigned, and should be prioritized first.

Recommended action cards highlight important actions to take to prepare your organization for
Copilot. These actions include moving users to a monthly app update channel and assigning
available Copilot licenses.
The last recommended action card promotes the Microsoft Copilot Dashboard, where you can
deliver insights to your IT leaders to explore Copilot readiness, adoption, and effect in Viva
Insights.

--- Page 1369 of 2193 ---

This graph shows the sum of users who could benefit the most from Copilot based on where
Copilot provides the most value in day-to-day scenarios. By default, it's sorted by descending
order across all rows by column Suggested candidate for Copilot.

The user table provides an at-a-glance view of which users are assigned a Copilot license,
whether their devices are configured correctly, and whether they're using a Microsoft 365 app
that has Copilot enabled.
You can also export the report data into an Excel .csv file by selecting the Export link. This action
exports the Microsoft 365 Copilot readiness data of all users with any engagement on Teams
meetings, Teams chat, and Outlook email for Office docs in the past 30 days. By exporting this
data, you can do simple sorting, filtering, and searching for further analysis.
To ensure data quality, the system performs daily data validation checks for the past three days
and fills any detected gaps. You might notice differences in historical data during the process.
User activity table
ﾉ Expand table
Metric Definition
User name The user's principal name.
Has Copilot license Yes/No field indicating if the user has a Copilot license assigned to them.
been assigned

--- Page 1370 of 2193 ---
Metric Definition
Uses eligible Yes/No field indicating if devices are configured to get the latest or monthly updates.
update channel
Uses Teams Indicates whether the user attended at least one meeting using Teams in the past 30
Meetings days.
Uses Teams chat Indicates whether the user participated in at least one chat using Teams in the past 30
days.
Uses Outlook Email Indicates whether the user sent at least one email using Outlook in the past 30 days.
Uses Office docs Indicates whether the user collaborated on at least one document or file using
OneDrive or SharePoint in the past 30 days.
Suggested Indicates the top 25% of nonlicensed users based on their Microsoft 365 app usage
candidate for over the prior month. For more information, see Extra details for the "Suggested
Copilot candidate for Copilot" column.
７ Note
By default, user-specific information like usernames, display names, groups, and sites is
hidden in usage reports. To learn how to display this information in usage reports, see Show
user, group, or site details in usage reports.
Extra details for the "Suggested candidate for Copilot" column
The Suggested candidate for Copilot column in the Microsoft 365 Copilot Readiness report
helps organizations identify users who might benefit most from Microsoft 365 Copilot as part of
initial rollouts and pilot programs. Each week, the feature flags the top 25% of nonlicensed users
within an organization. The flagged users are based on their consistent usage of the Microsoft
365 applications where Copilot adds value, such as Microsoft Teams and Outlook. Admins can use
this information to prepare a data-driven licensing plan for their Copilot rollout. The following list
contains key details about this feature:
The feature analyzes the Microsoft 365 usage across the users that aren't assigned Copilot
licenses each week. It then flags the top 25% of them as suggested candidates. This
selection is based on app usage intensity in applications where Microsoft 365 Copilot
provides value, such as Microsoft Outlook, Teams, and Word.
The feature is only available to customers who purchase Microsoft 365 Copilot licenses.
The feature doesn't rank users within the selected 25% group; there's no individual stack
ranking among suggested candidates.

--- Page 1371 of 2193 ---
Each week, the feature reevaluates the user base and suggests the top 25% based on usage
metrics for the preceding 28-day period. Users who are assigned a Microsoft 365 Copilot
license are removed from consideration. Over time, every eligible user in the organization
can be flagged as a suggested candidate for Copilot.
To support interpretability, several of the inputs to the suggestion model are also shown in
the Copilot readiness details table. Users that actively used Teams meetings, Teams chats,
Outlook emails, or Office docs over the preceding 28 day period have a "Yes" value in the
columns corresponding with each of these applications.
The intended purpose of this capability is to support organizations with the rollout of
Microsoft 365 Copilot by highlighting users who are most likely to quickly benefit from its
capabilities based on their consistent usage of Microsoft 365 apps. This data isn't intended
to be used to evaluate employee performance.
Related content
Microsoft 365 Copilot service description (article)
Set up Microsoft 365 Copilot (article)
Microsoft 365 Copilot Adoption (resources)
） Note: The author created this article with assistance from AI. Learn more
Last updated on 05/21/2026

--- Page 1372 of 2193 ---
Microsoft 365 Copilot usage report
The Microsoft 365 Copilot usage report provides a summary of how users adopt, retain, and
engage with Microsoft 365 Copilot and its associated enabled apps, including agent usage. For
Copilot activity on a given day, the report typically becomes available within 72 hours of the end
of that day (in UTC).
For general information about usage reports in the Microsoft 365 admin center, and to see a list
of all available reports, see Microsoft 365 admin center usage reports overview.
View the Microsoft 365 Copilot usage report
For information about the roles needed to view usage reports, see "Before you begin" in
Microsoft 365 admin center usage reports overview
1. Go to the Microsoft 365 admin center .
2. In the navigation menu, select Reports. If you don't see Reports, select Show all, and then
select Reports.
3. Select Usage .
4. On the Usage page, under Reports, select Microsoft 365 Copilot, and then select Copilot.
5. On the report page, select the Usage tab to view adoption and usage metrics.
Interpret the Microsoft 365 Copilot usage report
At the top, you can filter by different timeframes. You can view the Microsoft 365 Copilot report
over the last 7, 30, 90, or 180 days.
You can view several numbers for Microsoft 365 Copilot usage, which highlight the enablement
number and the adoption of the enablement:

Enabled Users shows the total number of unique users in your organization with Microsoft
365 Copilot licenses over the selected timeframe.

--- Page 1373 of 2193 ---
Active Users shows the total number of enabled users in your organization who tried a
user-initiated Microsoft 365 Copilot feature, in one or more apps in Microsoft 365 over the
selected timeframe.
Active users rate shows the number of active users in your organization divided by the
number of enabled users.
In Recommendations, the recommended action card highlights Microsoft Copilot Dashboard,
where you can deliver insights to your IT leaders to explore Copilot readiness, adoption, and
impact in Viva Insights.
Active agent users shows the total number of unique Microsoft 365 Copilot users in your
org who used agents built by your org (including admin-approved agents and agents
created via agent builder and shared with users in your org).
７ Note
Agent usage is available starting November 1, 2024, and is currently limited to agents built
by your org. Usage of agents built by Microsoft and Microsoft Partners will be introduced in
the coming months.
Total prompts submitted shows the total number of prompts users sent to Microsoft 365
Copilot Chat during the selected time frame.
Average prompts submitted per user represents the mean number of prompts each active
user sent to Microsoft 365 Copilot Chat during the selected timeframe.
In the Adoption section, Adoption by app shows enabled users and active users of Copilot in
Microsoft 365 apps.
You see the following summary charts in this report as default view:

--- Page 1374 of 2193 ---

The definitions for Enabled Users and Active Users metrics are the same as provided earlier.
Summary view shows the total usage of Microsoft 365 Copilot apps of the time frame.
Trend view shows the daily time trend of Microsoft 365 Copilot apps of the time frame.
When switching to Trend view, you can select one product in the dropdown list to see daily
usage.

In the Prompts submitted section, Summary view shows the total number of prompts users
submitted to Microsoft Copilot Chat over the selected time frame.

--- Page 1375 of 2193 ---

Trend view shows the daily trend of prompts submitted in Microsoft 365 Copilot over the
selected time frame.

Copilot Chat adoption shows enabled users and total usage of Copilot Chat and split usage
between Copilot Chat (work) and Copilot Chat (web).

--- Page 1376 of 2193 ---

Agent adoption shows active users of agents in Microsoft 365 Copilot for the selected period.
Only usage of agents created by your org, including both admin-approved agents and agents
shared by users in your org, are included in this chart.
Summary view shows the total number of agent users in Microsoft 365 Copilot over the selected
time frame.


--- Page 1377 of 2193 ---
Trend view shows the daily trend of active agent users in Microsoft 365 Copilot over the selected
time frame.

The following table lists the features for active users of Copilot apps:
ﾉ Expand table
Copilot Features How to use Learn more
app about the
feature
Microsoft Copilot Chat (web) Type a message into the chat Copilot -
Edge window or select a suggested Microsoft Edge
prompt and submit. Or select
Ask Copilot in the right-click of
contextual web info.
Copilot Chat (work) Type a message into the chat Copilot -
window or select a suggested Microsoft Edge
prompt and submit.
Microsoft Copilot Chat (web) Type a message into the chat Get started with
365 Copilot window or select a suggested Microsoft 365
(app) prompt and submit. Copilot Chat
Copilot Chat (work) Type a message into the chat Get started with
window or select a suggested Microsoft 365
prompt and submit. Copilot Chat
Outlook Summarize an Outlook email thread In an email thread, select Summarize an
Summarize by Copilot or email thread with

--- Page 1378 of 2193 ---
Copilot Features How to use Learn more
app about the
feature
Summarize at the top of the Copilot in
email thread. (User experience is Outlook -
slightly different among web, Microsoft
Windows, Mac, or mobile.) Support
Generate an Outlook email draft Select Copilot icon from the Draft an email
toolbar, select Draft with message with
Copilot, type a prompt in Copilot in
Copilot box, and submit. (User Outlook -
experience is slightly different Microsoft
among web, Windows, Mac, or Support
mobile.)
Coach Select the Copilot icon in the Email coaching
email message, and then select with Copilot in
Coaching by Copilot. Copilot Outlook -
reviews email and offers Microsoft
suggestions on improving the Support
tone, clarity, and reader
sentiment. (User experience is
slightly different among web,
Windows, Mac, or mobile.)
Copilot Chat (work) Go to the left side of Outlook Get started with
web app, select Copilot from the Microsoft 365
apps list, type a prompt, and Copilot Chat
send. This feature is included in
the Outlook app level and all up
Microsoft 365 active usage
count effective August 28, 2024.
Copilot Chat (web) Go to the left navigation of Get started with
Outlook app, select Copilot from Microsoft 365
the apps list and select Web Copilot Chat
option at the top of the chat
pane, type a prompt into the
chat window or select a
suggested prompt and submit.
This feature is included in the
Outlook app level and all up
Microsoft 365 active usage
count effective July 01, 2025.

--- Page 1379 of 2193 ---
Copilot Features How to use Learn more
app about the
feature
App Chat Go to top right corner of Frequently asked
Outlook web app, select Copilot questions about
placed next to settings option, Copilot in
type a prompt, and send. This Outlook
feature is included in the
Outlook app level and all up
Microsoft 365 active usage
count effective August 17, 2024.
Teams Summarizing key points during Summarizing key discussion Get started with
meetings points during meeting using Copilot in
Copilot in Microsoft Teams. Microsoft Teams
meetings -
Microsoft
Support
Summarize chats and channel Type a prompt or select a Use Copilot in
conversations prompt from More prompts in Microsoft Teams
Copilot compose box in a chat chat and channels
or channel and submit. - Microsoft
Support
Rewrite and adjust messages Write a message in message Rewrite and
box, select Rewrite/Adjust in adjust your
Copilot beneath the message messages with
box to rewrite or adjust the Copilot in
whole or specific selection of the Microsoft Teams -
message. Microsoft
Support
Intelligent Recap Select the Recap tab in the Get started with
meeting chat for Teams calendar Microsoft 365
event and view the AI Notes Copilot in Teams
section after the meeting ends - Microsoft
(meeting is recorded and Support
transcribed).
Interpreter Turn on Interpreter under the Interpreter in
More icon and listen to a Microsoft Teams
meeting in one of the selected meetings and
languages. calls
Facilitator Turn on Facilitator under the Facilitator in
More icon and activate AI- Microsoft Teams
generated notes; or interact with meetings
Facilitator or Facilitator-

--- Page 1380 of 2193 ---
Copilot Features How to use Learn more
app about the
feature
generated content during or
after a meeting.
Copilot Chat (work) Go to Chat on the left side of Get started with
Teams, select Copilot from the Microsoft 365
top of your Teams chat list, type Copilot in Teams
a prompt, and send. - Microsoft
Support
Copilot Chat (web) Go to the left navigation of Get started with
Teams application, select Copilot Microsoft 365
from the apps list and select Copilot in Teams
Web option at the top of the - Microsoft
chat pane, type a prompt into Support
the chat window or select a
suggested prompt and submit.
This feature is included in the
Teams app level and all up
Microsoft 365 active usage
count effective July 01, 2025.
Word All Copilot in Word features are To learn more
automatically included in the about Copilot in
Microsoft 365 Copilot usage report. Word features,
Usage of any Copilot in Word feature refer to Welcome
counts towards the Active users to Copilot in
metric and is indicated in the per- Word - Microsoft
user Last activity date (UTC). Support .
NOTE: Edit with Word counts
towards "Prompts submitted in
Copilot Chat (work)," but Edit with
Excel and Edit with PowerPoint
don't.
Excel All Copilot in Excel features are To learn more about Copilot in
automatically included in the Excel features, refer to Get
Microsoft 365 Copilot usage report. started with Copilot in Excel -
Usage of any Copilot in Excel feature Microsoft Support .
counts towards the Active users
metric and is indicated in the per-
user Last activity date (UTC).
PowerPoint All Copilot in PowerPoint features are To learn more
automatically included in the about Copilot in
Microsoft 365 Copilot usage report. PowerPoint
Usage of any Copilot in PowerPoint features, refer to

--- Page 1381 of 2193 ---
Copilot Features How to use Learn more
app about the
feature
feature counts towards the Active Welcome to
users metric and is indicated in the Copilot in
per-user Last activity date (UTC). PowerPoint -
Microsoft
Support .
OneNote All Copilot in OneNote features are To learn more
automatically included in the about Copilot in
Microsoft 365 Copilot usage report. OneNote
Usage of any Copilot in OneNote features, refer to
feature counts towards the Active Welcome to
users metric and is indicated in the Copilot in
per-user Last activity date (UTC). OneNote -
Microsoft
Support .
Loop All Copilot in Loop features are To learn more
automatically included in the about Copilot in
Microsoft 365 Copilot usage report. Loop features,
Usage of any Copilot in Loop feature refer to Get
counts towards the Active users started with
metric and is indicated in the per- Microsoft 365
user Last activity date (UTC). As of Copilot in Loop -
December 11, 2025, user views of Microsoft
Loop documents generated by the Support .
Facilitator feature in Teams meetings
are included in active usage for the
Loop app and all-up Microsoft 365
Copilot usage.
７ Note
Active users of Word, Excel, and PowerPoint data is incomplete before January 25, 2024.
The following table lists the features for active users of agents:
ﾉ Expand table
Feature How to use Learn more about the
feature
UX interactions that End users can interact with agents in two ways: Learn about Getting
count towards agent started with agents for
1. By at-mentioning the agent in a chat experience

--- Page 1382 of 2193 ---
Feature How to use Learn more about the
feature
usage 2. By selecting the agent from the side panel in Microsoft 365 Copilot
Copilot Chat or from the Open navigation panel
button in the top corner of Copilot in Word or
PowerPoint.
An active user of an agent is a user who asks an agent a
question and receives a response.
） Important
The metrics displayed in the Microsoft 365 Copilot usage report come from data that
classified as required service data. Optional diagnostic data isn't required for comprehensive
information, but this requirement might change in the future. Learn more about required
service data.
In the Adoption section, you might see a recommendation card:

To learn more about using organizational messages for Microsoft 365 Copilot, see Microsoft 365
features adoption using organizational messages.
You can export the report data into an Excel .csv file by selecting the ellipses and then Export in
the top corner of the chart.
You can view a table list to show each Microsoft 365 Copilot enabled user's last activity date
among Microsoft 365 Copilot apps.

--- Page 1383 of 2193 ---

To add or remove columns from the report, select Choose columns.

--- Page 1384 of 2193 ---

To export the report data into an Excel .csv file, select Export. This action exports the usage data
of all users and enables you to do simple sorting, filtering, and searching for further analysis.
To ensure data quality, the system performs daily data validation checks for the past three days
and fills any gaps it detects. You might notice differences in historical data during the process.

--- Page 1385 of 2193 ---
User last activity table
ﾉ Expand table
Metric Definition
User name The user's principal name.
Display name The full name of the user.
Prompts submitted Total number of prompts a user submitted in Copilot across all in-scope host
(any app) applications during the selected timeframe.
Copilot Chat The total number of prompts this user submitted to Copilot Chat (work) during the
(work) prompts selected timeframe.
submitted
Copilot Chat (web) The total number of prompts this user submitted to Copilot Chat (web) during the
prompts submitted selected timeframe.
Active Days The total number of days the user submitted prompts to Microsoft 365 Copilot Chat
within the selected timeframe.
Last activity date The most recent date the user sent a message to Microsoft 365 Copilot Chat in Teams,
(UTC (Universal Outlook, m365.cloud.microsoft/chat, Microsoft Edge, the Microsoft 365 Copilot (app),
Time Code)) Word, Excel, PowerPoint, or OneNote. This date remains fixed even if the timeframe of
the report is changed.
Last activity date The latest date the user had activity in Microsoft Teams Copilot, including any of the
of Teams Copilot intentional activities, regardless of the selected timeframe of past 7, 30, 90, or 180
(UTC) days.
Last activity date The latest date the user had activity in Word Copilot, including any of the intentional
of Word Copilot activities, regardless of the selected timeframe of past 7, 30, 90, or 180 days.
(UTC)
Last activity date The latest date the user had activity in Excel Copilot, including any of the intentional
of Excel Copilot activities, regardless of the selected timeframe of past 7, 30, 90, or 180 days.
(UTC)
Last activity date The latest date the user had activity in PowerPoint Copilot, including any of the
of PowerPoint intentional activities, regardless of the selected timeframe of past 7, 30, 90, or 180
Copilot (UTC) days.
Last activity date The latest date the user had activity in Outlook Copilot, including any of the
of Outlook Copilot intentional activities, regardless of the selected timeframe of past 7, 30, 90, or 180
(UTC) days.
Last activity date The latest date the user had activity in OneNote Copilot, including any of the
of OneNote intentional activities, regardless of the selected timeframe of past 7, 30, 90, or 180
Copilot (UTC) days.

--- Page 1386 of 2193 ---
Metric Definition
Last activity date The latest date the user had activity in Loop Copilot, including any of the intentional
of Loop Copilot activities, regardless of the selected timeframe of past 7, 30, 90, or 180 days.
(UTC)
Last activity date The latest date the user had activity in Copilot Chat (work), including any of the
of Copilot Chat intentional activities, regardless of the selected timeframe of past 7, 30, 90, or 180
(work) (UTC) days.
Last activity date The latest date the user had activity in Copilot Chat (web), including any of the
of Copilot Chat intentional activities, regardless of the selected timeframe of past 7, 30, 90, or 180
(web) (UTC) days.
Last activity date The most recent date the user had activity in Copilot Chat in an entry point Microsoft
of Microsoft 365 365 App, including any of the intentional activities, regardless of the selected
App (UTC) timeframe of past 7, 30, 90, or 180 days.
Last activity date The most recent date the user had activity in Copilot Chat in entry point Microsoft
of Microsoft Edge Edge, including any of the intentional activities, regardless of the selected timeframe
(UTC) of past 7, 30, 90, or 180 days.
Last activity date The latest date the user had activity with an agent built by your org, regardless of the
of any agent (UTC) selected timeframe of past 7, 30, 90, or 180 days.
７ Note
By default, user-specific information like usernames, display names, groups, and sites is
hidden in usage reports. To learn how to display this information in usage reports, see Show
user, group, or site details in usage reports.
FAQ
How is a user considered active in Microsoft 365 Copilot usage?
A user is active in a given app if they perform an intentional action for an AI-powered capability.
For example, if a user selects the Copilot icon in the Word ribbon to open the Copilot chat pane,
this action doesn't count towards active usage. However, if the user interacts with the chat pane
by submitting a prompt, this action counts towards active usage.
What's the difference between the user activity table and
audit log?

--- Page 1387 of 2193 ---
Audit log data that powers Microsoft Purview solutions, such as Data Security Posture
Management for AI (previously called AI Hub), is built for data security and compliance purposes.
It provides comprehensive visibility into Copilot interactions for these use cases. For example, it
helps to discover data oversharing risks or to collect interactions for regulatory compliance or
legal purposes. It's not, however, intended to be used as the basis for Copilot usage reporting.
Any aggregated metrics that you build on top of this data, such as "prompt count" or "active user
count," might not be consistent with the corresponding data points in the official Copilot usage
reports provided by Microsoft. Microsoft can't provide guidance about how to use audit log data
as the basis for usage reporting, nor can we guarantee that aggregated usage metrics built on
top of audit log data matched similar usage metrics reported in other tools.
To access accurate information on Microsoft 365 Copilot usage, use one of the following reports:
the Microsoft 365 Copilot usage report in the Microsoft 365 Admin Center or the Copilot
Dashboard in Viva Insights.
What's the scope of the user-level table?
The user-level table in the report shows all users who were licensed for Microsoft 365 Copilot at
any point over the past 180 days, even if the user later removed the license or never had any
Copilot active usage.
I assigned the Microsoft 365 Copilot license to users, but why is
the 'last activity date' for users empty in rare cases?
Based on system constraints, some users might not have a 'last activity date' in the user-level
table of the report under the following conditions:
1. The user used Microsoft 365 Copilot within a short time window (less than 24 hours) after
the Microsoft 365 Copilot license was assigned.
2. The user later had no other Microsoft 365 Copilot usage up to the date on which the report
is viewed.
Why is the 'Last activity date of Word, Excel, PowerPoint,
OneNote, or Outlook Copilot (UTC)' sometimes blank or
newer than the actual date, even when users recently used
Copilot features?
A known limitation might cause this problem. For various reasons, uploading client events data
for Copilot features in Word, Excel, PowerPoint, OneNote, and Outlook can be delayed. For

--- Page 1388 of 2193 ---
example, if end users disconnect from the internet immediately after taking a Copilot action, the
data upload is delayed.
How do the numbers in this report compare to what is shown
in the Microsoft Copilot Dashboard in Viva Insights?
The data in these reports is based on the same underlying definitions of active usage, but the
population of users included in the analysis and the timeframe displayed might differ. To learn
more, see Use Microsoft Copilot Dashboard advanced features with a Viva Insights subscription.
） Note: The author created this article with assistance from AI. Learn more
Last updated on 05/21/2026

--- Page 1389 of 2193 ---
Microsoft 365 Copilot Agents usage report
The Microsoft 365 Copilot Agent usage report helps you track how agents are used in Microsoft
365 Copilot Chat and Microsoft 365 apps - Word, Excel, and PowerPoint. You can see which
agents both licensed and unlicensed Microsoft 365 Copilot users use across Declarative,
SharePoint, and Custom engine agents. These agents include agents built by your organization,
Microsoft, and Microsoft Partners.
You can view usage within an hour from when users interact with agents. The report includes key
metrics such as:
Total active users and agents
Summary and daily time series
Active usage per user, per agent, and per agent-user pair
For general information about usage reports in the Microsoft 365 admin center, and to see a list
of all available reports, see Microsoft 365 admin center usage reports overview.
View the Microsoft 365 Copilot Agents usage report
For information about the roles needed to view usage reports, see "Before you begin" in
Microsoft 365 admin center usage reports overview
1. Go to the Microsoft 365 admin center .
2. In the navigation menu, select Reports. If you don't see Reports, select Show all, and then
select Reports.
3. Select Usage .
4. On the Usage page, under Reports, select Microsoft 365 Copilot, and then select Agents.
Interpret the Microsoft 365 Copilot Agents
usage report
Use the Agents usage report to see the usage of agents in your organization that your
organization, Microsoft, or Microsoft Partners built. These agents include agents that an admin
approves, and agents that users create through agent builder and share with users in your
organization. Admins can manage agents in the same way as they manage any other app in the

--- Page 1390 of 2193 ---
Copilot Control system section of the Microsoft 365 admin center. For more information, see
Manage agents for Microsoft 365 Copilot in the Microsoft 365 admin center.
At the top of the report, you can filter by different periods. You can view the agent report over
the last 7 or 30 days.
７ Note
The data for declarative agents in Agent usage preview report is available as of August 19,
2025. For SharePoint agents and Custom engine agents, it's available as of November 11,
2025.

Total active users shows how many unique users in your organization - whether they have a
Microsoft 365 Copilot license or not - used agents in Microsoft 365 Copilot Chat during the
selected time period. This count includes agents created by your organization, Microsoft, or
Microsoft partners.
Active users (licensed) shows how many unique users in your organization who had a
Microsoft 365 Copilot license used agents in Microsoft 365 Copilot Chat during the selected
time period.
Active users (unlicensed) shows how many unique users in your organization, who didn't
have a Microsoft 365 Copilot license and used agents in Microsoft 365 Copilot Chat during
the selected time period.
Total active agents shows how many unique apps with an agent element in that app with at
least one active user over the selected time period. This count includes agents created by

--- Page 1391 of 2193 ---
your organization, including agents both admin approved and shared by users in your
organization, Microsoft built agents, and agents built by Microsoft partners.
An active user of an agent is a user who asks an agent a question and receives a response. Users
interact with agents in the following ways:
By selecting the agent from the side panel in Microsoft 365 Copilot Chat and at-mentioning
the agent in the chat experience.
By selecting the Open navigation panel button in the top corner of Microsoft 365 Copilot in
Word, Excel, or PowerPoint.
To learn more about managing and enabling agents in your organization, see Manage agents for
Microsoft 365 Copilot in the Microsoft 365 admin center.
Users by license type

The definition of active users (licensed and unlicensed) is the same as provided earlier.
You can switch between Summary view and Trend view.
Summary view shows how many users with a Microsoft 365 Copilot license used agents
compared with users who don't have a Microsoft 365 Copilot license, over the selected time
frame.
Trend view shows daily agent usage over the selected time frame, comparing how many
users with a Microsoft 365 Copilot license used agents compared with users who don't have
a Microsoft 365 Copilot license.

--- Page 1392 of 2193 ---

Users by creator type
Shows how many users actively used an agent, grouped by who created the agent.

The definition of active users is the same as provided earlier. The Creator type tells you who built
the agent. The following table describes the different types:
ﾉ Expand table
Creator Description
type value
User Agents created by individuals in your organization using tools like agent builder. These
agents aren't listed in the organization-wide catalog but users can use them for themselves,
or share them via a link with others in the same organization.
Your org Agents created by individuals in your organization using tools like Microsoft 365 Agents
Toolkit or Microsoft Copilot Studio, and admin-approved for broader use across your

--- Page 1393 of 2193 ---
Creator Description
type value
organization.
Microsoft Agents built by Microsoft
Microsoft Agent built by Microsoft partners and admin-approved for use in your organization.
partner
Any The agent is any of the listed creator types, such as User, Your organization, Microsoft, or
Microsoft Partner.
You can switch between Summary view and Trend view.
Summary view shows how many users used an agent where the agent was one of the
Creator types described earlier, regardless of whether the user had a Microsoft 365 Copilot
license, over the selected time frame.
Trend view shows daily usage of agents - how many users used an agent each day where
the agent was one of the Creator types described earlier, regardless of whether the user had
a Microsoft 365 Copilot license, over the selected time frame.

Agents by creator type
Shows how many agents users in your organization used, grouped by who created the agent.

--- Page 1394 of 2193 ---

The definition of active agents and Creator type is the same as provided earlier.
You can switch between Summary view and Trend view.
Summary view shows how many agents users in your organization used where the agent
was one of the Creator types described earlier, regardless of whether the users had a
Microsoft 365 Copilot license, over the selected time frame.
Trend view shows daily usage of agents - how many agents users in your organization used
each day where the agent was one of the Creator types described earlier, regardless of
whether the user had a Microsoft 365 Copilot license, over the selected time frame.

--- Page 1395 of 2193 ---

User details table

ﾉ Expand table
Metric Definition
Username The user's principal name.
Display name The full name of the user.
Number of agents The number of distinct agents the user used for the selected time period.
used
Agent responses Total responses from all agents used during the selected time period.
received
Last activity date The most recent date the user used an agent, regardless of the selected time period
(UTC) of past 7 or 30 days.

--- Page 1396 of 2193 ---
７ Note
By default, user-specific information like usernames, display names, groups, and sites is
hidden in usage reports. To learn how to display this information in usage reports, see Show
user, group, or site details in usage reports.
Agent details table

ﾉ Expand table
Metric Definition
Agent ID An agent is an element of an app. The ID is the app identifier generated by Microsoft.
Agent name The name of the app as present in the app manifest.
Creator type Indicates who built the agent. The following list defines the values:
User are agents created by individuals in your organization using tools like agent
builder. These agents aren't listed in the organization-wide catalog, but users can
use the agents for themselves, or share agents via a link with others in the same
organization.
Your org are agents created by individuals in your organization using tools like
Microsoft 365 Agents Toolkit, Microsoft Copilot Studio, and admin-approved for
broader use across your organization.
Microsoft are agents built by Microsoft.
Microsoft partner are agent built by Microsoft partners and admin-approved for
use in your organization.
Any are agents from any of the listed creator types.
Active users The number of unique users in your organization with a Microsoft 365 Copilot license who
(licensed) used the agent for the selected time period.
Active users The number of unique users in your organization without a Microsoft 365 Copilot license
(unlicensed) who used the agent for the time period selected.

--- Page 1397 of 2193 ---
Metric Definition
Responses sent The total agent responses sent to all users during the selected period.
to users
Last activity The date when the agent was last used by anyone in your organization.
date (UTC)
Users and agent details table

ﾉ Expand table
Metric Definition
Agent ID An agent is an element of an app. The ID is the app identifier generated by Microsoft.
Agent name The name of the app as present in the app manifest.
Creator type Indicates who built the agent. The following list defines the values:
User are agents created by individuals in your organization using tools like agent
builder. These agents aren't listed in the organization-wide catalog, but users can use
the agents for themselves, or share agents via a link with others in the same
organization.
Your org are agents created by individuals in your organization using tools like
Microsoft 365 Agents Toolkit, Microsoft Copilot Studio, and admin-approved for
broader use across your organization.
- Microsoft are agents built by Microsoft.
Microsoft partner are agent built by Microsoft partners and admin-approved for use
in your organization.
Any are agents from any of the listed creator types.
Username The user's principal name.
Responses The total agent responses sent to all users during the selected period.
sent to users
Last activity The date when the agent was last used by anyone in your organization.

--- Page 1398 of 2193 ---
Metric Definition
date (UTC)
７ Note
By default, user-specific information like usernames, display names, groups, and sites is
hidden in usage reports. To learn how to display this information in usage reports, see Show
user, group, or site details in usage reports.
FAQ
Why don't I see the Export button in the details table anymore?
The Export button is temporarily removed from tables in the Details section. The export
functionality will be restored soon.
What is the difference between the Agent report and the Agent
usage report in Microsoft 365 Copilot, and which report should
I use?
The new Agent usage report provides a broader view than the one in Microsoft 365 Copilot. The
original report only includes agents built by your organization or users (using Agent Builder), and
only for licensed Copilot users. The new report includes usage by both licensed and unlicensed
users, and covers all agent creators, including Microsoft and Microsoft partners. It also includes
line-level details at the per-user, per-agent, and per-user and agent level. Over time, this new
report replaces the current Agent usage report in Microsoft 365 Copilot.
Why does this report only show the past 7 and 30 days, while
other usage reports also show the past 90 and 180 days?
The agent report is in preview and doesn't yet include the past 90 and 180 days but will add this
capability in a future update.
What is "Last activity detected"?
Last activity detected shows the most recent date and timestamp (in UTC) when user activity
generated agent usage.

--- Page 1399 of 2193 ---
Are agents created from Microsoft Copilot Studio and Teams
Toolkit included?
Yes. The following agents are the agents for which usage is reported:
Agents created in Microsoft Copilot Studio by users in your organization and approved by
an admin.
Agents created in Teams Toolkit by users in your organization and approved by an admin.
Agents created by users through agent builder for users that have this feature enabled and
shared with other users in your organization.
Why is the total active user count less than the sum of licensed
and unlicensed active users?
The sum of active users without a license and active users with a license might exceed the total
active users if you assigned or removed licenses during the selected timeframe.
How can I view the username or display name if
they're hidden?
By default, the usage report anonymizes the username and display name. Global administrators
can change settings to reveal or conceal these values.
） Important
Microsoft recommends that you use roles with the fewest permissions. Using roles with the
fewest permissions helps improve security for your organization. Global Administrator is a
highly privileged role that should be limited to emergency scenarios when you can't use an
existing role. For more information, see About administrator roles in the Microsoft 365
admin center.
To learn how to change the setting to show the username and display name information, see
Show user, group, or site details in usage reports.
Are SharePoint agents used in Teams included in the
usage report?
No. SharePoint agents used in Teams aren't currently included in the usage metrics in the report.
For more information, see Share an agent from SharePoint in Teams - Microsoft Support .

--- Page 1400 of 2193 ---
Why is the "Total active users" count smaller than the sum of
unlicensed and licensed user counts for my organization?
You might see this discrepancy if a user's Microsoft 365 Copilot license changes during the
selected time period. For example, the user might be assigned a Copilot license and later remove
it within that same period.
） Note: The author created this article with assistance from AI. Learn more
Last updated on 05/21/2026

--- Page 1401 of 2193 ---
Microsoft 365 Copilot Chat usage report -
Microsoft 365 admin center
The Microsoft 365 Copilot Chat usage report provides insights into active usage of Microsoft 365
Copilot Chat. The report includes total active users, average daily active users, total prompts
submitted, and average prompts submitted per user. You can view usage insights as totals and
trends for the past 7, 30, 90, or 180-day periods. The report also shows the last activity date,
prompts submitted, and active days per user, anonymized by default. To view all reports, see
Microsoft 365 Reports in the admin center overview.
７ Note
The report currently supports only users without a Microsoft 365 Copilot license who
interact with Copilot Chat in Teams, Outlook, m365.cloud.microsoft/chat, Microsoft 365
Copilot (app), Microsoft Edge, Word, Excel, PowerPoint, and OneNote.
For general information about Microsoft 365 Usage reports and to see a list of all available
reports, see Microsoft 365 admin center usage reports overview.
View the Microsoft 365 Copilot Chat usage report
For information about the roles needed to view usage reports, see Microsoft 365 admin center
usage reports overview.
1. Go to the Microsoft 365 admin center .
2. In the navigation menu, select Reports. If you don't see Reports, select Show all, and then
select Reports.
3. Select Usage .
4. On the Usage page, under Reports, select Microsoft 365 Copilot, and then select Copilot
Chat.
Interpret the Microsoft 365 Copilot Chat usage report
Use this report to see the usage of Microsoft 365 Copilot Chat in your organization. At the top,
filter by different periods. You can view the Microsoft 365 Copilot Chat report over the last 7, 30,
90, or 180 days.

--- Page 1402 of 2193 ---
You can view aggregated numbers for Microsoft 365 Copilot Chat active users, average daily
active users, total prompts submitted, and average prompts submitted per user:

Active users shows the total number of users who submitted at least one prompt to
Microsoft 365 Copilot Chat during the selected period.
Average daily active users indicates the average number of people using Microsoft 365
Copilot Chat per day over the selected period.
Total prompts submitted refers to the overall number of prompts users sent to Microsoft
365 Copilot Chat during the selected period.
Average prompts submitted per user represents the mean number of prompts each active
user sent to Microsoft 365 Copilot Chat during the selected period.
In Recommendations, the recommended action card highlights where admins can update
settings to pin Copilot to make it easier for users in the organization to find and use Copilot in
apps like Teams and Outlook.

You see the following summary charts in this report as default view:

--- Page 1403 of 2193 ---

Summary view shows you the total usage of Microsoft 365 Copilot Chat of the time frame.
Trend view shows you the daily time trend of Microsoft 365 Copilot Chat of the time frame.
You can switch between Summary view and Trend view. When switching to Trend view, you can
select one or multiple entry points in the dropdown list to see daily usage or compare among
entry points.

The following table shows app details for active Microsoft 365 Copilot Chat users:
ﾉ Expand table
App Details More information
Edge Microsoft 365 Copilot Chat was used from the sidebar Copilot - Microsoft
in the Microsoft Edge browser. Edge
Microsoft 365 Copilot Microsoft 365 Copilot Chat was used in the desktop, Overview of
(app) mobile, or web version of the Microsoft 365 Copilot Microsoft 365
(app), including the following entry points: Copilot Chat
Microsoft365.com, Office.com, M365Copilot.com,
Microsoft 365 desktop app, Microsoft 365 mobile app,
M365.cloud.microsoft

--- Page 1404 of 2193 ---
App Details More information
Teams Microsoft 365 Copilot Chat was used in Teams. Manage Copilot
Chat in Teams
Outlook Microsoft 365 Copilot Chat was used in Outlook. Manage Copilot
Chat on the web, in
the Microsoft 365
Copilot app, and in
Outlook
m365.cloud.microsoft/chat Microsoft 365 Copilot Chat was used in Manage Microsoft
m365.cloud.microsoft/chat. 365 Copilot Chat
Word Microsoft 365 Copilot Chat was used in Word. Overview of
Microsoft 365
Copilot Chat
Excel Microsoft 365 Copilot Chat was used in Excel. Edit Overview of
mode in Excel is not currently included in active usage Microsoft 365
metrics. Support for this mode may be added in a Copilot Chat
future release.
PowerPoint Microsoft 365 Copilot Chat was used in PowerPoint. Overview of
Edit mode in PowerPoint is not currently included in Microsoft 365
active usage metrics. Support for this mode may be Copilot Chat
added in a future release.
OneNote Microsoft 365 Copilot Chat was used in PowerPoint. Overview of
Microsoft 365
Copilot Chat
You can export the report data into an Excel .csv file by selecting the ellipses and then Export in
the top-right corner.
You can view a table that shows each active user who accessed Microsoft 365 Copilot Chat over
the past 180 days.

--- Page 1405 of 2193 ---

To export the report data into an Excel .csv file, select Export. This action exports the Microsoft
365 Copilot Chat usage data of all users and enables you to do simple sorting, filtering, and
searching for further analysis.
User last activity table
ﾉ Expand table
Item Description
Username The user's principal name.
Display name The full name of the user.
Prompts submitted The total number of prompts this user submitted to Microsoft 365 Copilot
Chat during the specified period.
Active days The total number of days the user submitted prompts to Microsoft 365
Copilot Chat within the specified timeframe.
Last activity date (UTC) The most recent date on which the user sent a message to Microsoft 365
Copilot Chat in Teams, Outlook, m365.cloud.microsoft/chat, Microsoft
Edge, the Microsoft 365 Copilot (app), Word, Excel, PowerPoint, or
OneNote. This date remains fixed even if the timeframe of the report is
changed.
Last activity date of Teams The most recent date on which the user sent a message to Microsoft 365
(UTC) Copilot Chat in Teams. This date remains fixed even if the timeframe of the
report is changed.

--- Page 1406 of 2193 ---
Item Description
Last activity date of Outlook The most recent date on which the user sent a message to Microsoft 365
(UTC) Copilot Chat in Outlook. This date remains fixed even if the timeframe of
the report is changed.
Last activity date of The most recent date on which the user sent a message to Microsoft 365
m365.cloud.microsoft/chat Copilot Chat in m365.cloud.microsoft/chat. This date remains fixed even if
(UTC) the timeframe of the report is changed.
Last activity date of Microsoft The most recent date on which the user sent a message to Microsoft 365
365 Copilot (app) (UTC) Copilot Chat in Microsoft 365 Copilot (app). This date remains fixed even if
the timeframe of the report is changed.
Last activity date of Edge (UTC) The most recent date on which the user sent a message to Microsoft 365
Copilot Chat from the sidebar in the Microsoft Edge browser. This date
remains fixed even if the timeframe of the report is changed.
Last activity date of Word (UTC) The most recent date on which the user sent a message to Microsoft 365
Copilot Chat in Word. This date remains fixed even if the timeframe of the
report is changed.
Last activity date of Excel (UTC) The most recent date on which the user sent a message to Microsoft 365
Copilot Chat in Excel. This date remains fixed even if the timeframe of the
report is changed.
Last activity date of PowerPoint The most recent date on which the user sent a message to Microsoft 365
(UTC) Copilot Chat in PowerPoint. This date remains fixed even if the timeframe
of the report is changed.
Last activity date of OneNote The most recent date on which the user sent a message to Microsoft 365
(UTC) Copilot Chat in OneNote. This date remains fixed even if the timeframe of
the report is changed.
By default, user-specific information like usernames, display names, groups, and sites is hidden in
usage reports. To learn how to display this information in usage reports, see Show user, group, or
site details in usage reports.
FAQ
Does this report include only the Copilot Chat usage for users
without a Microsoft 365 Copilot license in the organization?
Yes. To view Copilot Chat usage for Microsoft 365 Copilot licensed users in the organization, see
the Microsoft 365 Copilot usage report in the Microsoft 365 admin center.
） Note: The author created this article with assistance from AI. Learn more

--- Page 1407 of 2193 ---
Last updated on 05/12/2026

--- Page 1408 of 2193 ---
Microsoft 365 Copilot Search usage report
７ Note
The Copilot Search usage report is currently in public preview. Deployment processes and
functionality might change before this report becomes generally available. During the public
preview phase, you might notice some unexpected behaviors. These observations help
Microsoft improve the product before general availability.
The Microsoft 365 Copilot Search usage report provides a detailed view of both organizational
and individual user activity with Copilot Search across platforms. It includes trend charts for active
usage and search activity at the organization level, and insights into each user's search behavior
during a selected timeframe. The report reflects user behaviors within one hour. With these
insights, you can easily track Copilot Search usage trends and make informed decisions about
how to drive further adoption within your organization.
For general information about usage reports in the Microsoft 365 admin center, and to see a list
of all available reports, see Microsoft 365 admin center usage reports overview.
View the Copilot Search usage report
For information about the roles needed to view usage reports, see "Before you begin" in
Microsoft 365 admin center usage reports overview
1. Go to the Microsoft 365 admin center .
2. In the navigation menu, select Reports. If you don't see Reports, select Show all, and then
select Reports.
3. Select Usage .
4. On the Usage page, under Reports, select Microsoft 365 Copilot, and then select Copilot
Search.
Interpret the Copilot Search usage report
At the top, filter by different timeframes. You can view the Copilot Search usage report over the
last 7, 30, 90, or 180 days.
You can view several metrics for Copilot Search usage:

--- Page 1409 of 2193 ---

The following table lists the features included for active users of Copilot Search:
ﾉ Expand table
Copilot app Features What counts as active usage
Microsoft 365 Search A licensed Microsoft 365 Copilot user completes at least one of the following
Copilot app actions:
1. Types in a query, keyword, or natural language to find information
about files, people, answers, and other content and lands in the results
page.
2. Types in a query and selects or engages with query suggestions in the
search box.
3. Selects an item from the options displayed in the search box
dropdown list
To learn more about the Copilot Search feature, see Microsoft 365 Copilot Search.
Active users shows the total number of users with a Microsoft 365 Copilot license in your
organization who completed a Copilot Search query within the Microsoft 365 Copilot app
over the selected timeframe.
Average daily active users shows the average daily number of individuals who actively used
Copilot Search over the selected timeframe.
Total searches shows the number of distinct search queries made in Copilot Search by
active users in the selected timeframe, consistent with the set of behaviors summarized in
the active users definition.
Average searches per user shows the average number of distinct search queries made by
active users in the selected timeframe.
You see the following trend view charts in this report as default view:

--- Page 1410 of 2193 ---

Active users trend view shows you the daily trend view of active usage of Copilot Search over the
selected time frame. When you hover over a specific day on this chart, you see the total number
of active users for that day. This interactive feature helps you quickly understand daily usage
patterns with Copilot Search across your organization.

Total searches trend view shows a daily trend of searches made by active users over the selected
timeframe. When you hover over a specific day on this chart, you see the total number of
searches for that day. This interactive feature helps you quickly understand daily engagement
patterns with Copilot search across your organization.
User activity table

--- Page 1411 of 2193 ---
ﾉ Expand table
Metric Definition
User ID The user's principal ID
Display name The user's full name
Total searches Total number of distinct search queries the active user made during the selected
timeframe
Last activity date The date when the user was most recently active in Copilot Search
(UTC)
７ Note
By default, user-specific information like usernames, display names, groups, and sites is
hidden in usage reports. To learn how to display this information in usage reports, see Show
user, group, or site details in usage reports.
The User activity table includes user-level details about each active Copilot Search user, including
their total searches and their last activity date in Copilot Search.
To export the report data into an Excel .csv file, select Export. This action exports the usage data
of all users and enables you to do simple sorting, filtering, and searching for further analysis.
FAQ
What user actions count as active usage of Copilot Search?
A user is active in Copilot Search if they have a Microsoft 365 Copilot license and perform an
intentional search action by using the Copilot Search feature. Simply opening the Copilot Search
page doesn't count as active usage. The user is only counted as active if they interact with the
search box by submitting a query, searching for people, searching for a file, or searching for
content.
What platforms does Copilot Search active usage include?
Copilot Search active usage includes user activity within the Microsoft 365 Copilot app across
desktop, web, and mobile platforms. The report counts any intentional search action that you
perform on any of these platforms during the selected timeframe toward active usage.

--- Page 1412 of 2193 ---
What's the scope of the user-level table?
The user-level table in the report shows all users who were licensed for Microsoft 365 Copilot at
any point over the past 180 days, even if the user removed the license or never had any Copilot
active usage.
） Note: The author created this article with assistance from AI. Learn more
Last updated on 05/21/2026

--- Page 1413 of 2193 ---
Microsoft 365 Copilot credits report
The Microsoft 365 Copilot credits report helps you manage metered consumption costs for
Microsoft 365 Copilot Chat. This report gives you visibility into credits used for your Microsoft
365 Copilot pay-as-you-go billing policies. It includes key metrics such as:
Total credits used
Cumulative and daily time series
Credits used per user, per agent, per billing policy, and per agent-user pair
To learn more about meters, see Meters for Microsoft 365 Copilot pay-as-you-go for IT admins.
For general information about usage reports in the Microsoft 365 admin center, and to see a list
of all available reports, see Microsoft 365 admin center usage reports overview.
View the Copilot credits report
For information about the roles needed to view usage reports, see "Before you begin" in
Microsoft 365 admin center usage reports overview
1. Go to the Microsoft 365 admin center .
2. In the navigation menu, select Reports. If you don't see Reports, select Show all, and then
select Reports.
3. Select Usage .
4. On the Usage page, under Reports, select Microsoft 365 Copilot, and then select Credits.
Interpret the Copilot Credits report
After you set up pay-as-you-go for Microsoft 365 Copilot Chat, either in the Microsoft 365 admin
center or the Power Platform admin center , and enable agent usage in your organization, you
see a new report that includes metrics for credits used.
To help you mitigate overspending, the report includes alerts when users in your organization use
more than 2,000 credits. To learn more, see Using agents in Microsoft 365 Copilot Chat and the
overview on enabling agents, which explains how agents are billed.
You can filter the report by different time periods. You can view the Copilot credits report over
the last 7 or 30 days.

--- Page 1414 of 2193 ---

７ Note
During preview, the report displays a maximum of 30 days of Copilot credits history. In
addition, usage information from before May 3, 2025, isn't available in the report.
Credits used
The Credits used metric shows the total credits used from interactions by users in your
organization who don't have a Microsoft 365 Copilot license and are interacting with agents in
Copilot Chat that spin the Copilot Studio meter during the selected time period. You can view
usage within an hour from when users interact with a metered agent.
The number of credits used depends on the design of the agent, how often users interact with it,
and the features the agent uses. Each interaction with an agent might use multiple message
types simultaneously. For example, an agent grounded in a tenant graph could use 12 credits (10
credits for tenant graph-grounding, and two credits for generative answers) to respond to a
single complex prompt from a user.
Alerts
The Alerts card is visible in the report when one or more users consume more than 3,000 credits
in the past 30 days.
Select View Copilot credits details to see the user list and export it to CSV. If users consume
2,000 to 3,000 credits, a similar alert appears.

--- Page 1415 of 2193 ---

７ Note
For preview, the alerts remain visible in the report for up to seven days and disappear after if
there are no new users who crossed the threshold.
Copilot credits usage report details
Use the Microsoft 365 Copilot Credits usage report to view user details, agent details, and user
and agent details.
Users

ﾉ Expand table
Metric Definition
Username The user's principal name.
Display name The full name of the user.
Past seven days The total credits used over the past seven days, including today.
Past 30 days The total credits used over the past 30 days, including today.
Last activity date (UTC) The latest date the user had activity with a metered agent in Copilot chat.

--- Page 1416 of 2193 ---
７ Note
By default, user-specific information like usernames, display names, groups, and sites is
hidden in usage reports. To learn how to display this information in usage reports, see Show
user, group, or site details in usage reports.
Agents

ﾉ Expand table
Metric Definition
Agent ID An agent is an element of an app. The ID is the app identifier generated by Microsoft.
Agent name The name of the app as present in the app manifest.
Past seven days The total credits used by users who used the agent over the past seven days, including
today.
Past 30 days The total credits used by users who used this agent over the past 30 days including
today.
Last activity date The date when the agent was last used by users in your org who don't have Microsoft
(UTC) 365 Copilot license.
Billing policies

--- Page 1417 of 2193 ---

ﾉ Expand table
Metric Definition
Billing Policy ID The ID is a Microsoft-generated identifier linked to the billing policy that you created for
specific users in a security group.
Past seven days The total credits used by members of the security group linked to the billing policy over
the past seven days, including today.
Past 30 days The total credits used by members of the security group linked to the billing policy over
the past 30 days, including today.
Last activity date The most recent date on which a member of the security group linked to the billing
(UTC) policy consumed credits.
Users and agents


--- Page 1418 of 2193 ---
ﾉ Expand table
Metric Definition
Agent ID An agent is an element of an app. The ID is the app identifier generated by Microsoft.
Agent name The name of the app as present in the app manifest.
Username The user's principal name.
Billing Policy ID The ID is a Microsoft-generated identifier linked to the billing policy that you created
for specific users in a security group.
Past seven days The total credits used by the user who used this agent over the past seven days,
including today.
Past 30 days The total credits used by the user who used this agent over the past 30 days, including
today.
Last activity date The date when the agent was last used by users in your org who don't have Microsoft
(UTC) 365 Copilot license.
７ Note
By default, user-specific information like usernames, display names, groups, and sites is
hidden in usage reports. To learn how to display this information in usage reports, see Show
user, group, or site details in usage reports.
７ Note
The report shows data up to today, but it doesn't automatically update if there's recent
usage. To view the latest data, manually refresh the report.
FAQ
Will I see consumption in this report if I configured the billing
policy in the Power Platform admin center?
Yes. You can set up the pay-as-you-go billing policy in the Microsoft 365 admin center or Power
Platform admin center. If you configure pay-as-you-go, and users without a Microsoft 365
Copilot license use metered agents in Copilot Chat, the data appears in the report.
What is "Last activity detected?"

--- Page 1419 of 2193 ---
Last activity detected is the date and timestamp of the most recent prompt or user activity that
generated the credits consumed.
How can I test that pay-as-you-go is correctly configured and
working properly?
Have a user who qualifies for pay-as-you-go use one of the following three agents: "Learning
Coach," "Writing Coach," or "Career Coach." Have the user submit a simple prompt, like "What
can you do?" This prompt consumes about 12 credits and is visible in the Copilot Credits Report.
How do I find a Billing policy name from the Billing policy ID?
1. In the Microsoft 365 admin center , go to Copilot > Billing & usage.
2. On the Billing policies tab, select a billing policy, and then select Details. You see the Policy
name and Billing Policy ID.
How can I view the billing policy ID if it's hidden?
By default, the Copilot credits report anonymizes the Billing Policy ID, just like the username and
display name. Global administrators can change the settings to show or hide the Billing Policy ID.
） Important
Microsoft recommends that you use roles with the fewest permissions. Using roles with the
fewest permissions helps improve security for your organization. Global Administrator is a
highly privileged role that should be limited to emergency scenarios when you can't use an
existing role. For more information, see About administrator roles in the Microsoft 365
admin center.
To learn how to change the setting to show the Username and Display name information, see
Show user, group, or site details in usage reports.
７ Note
Changes to this hidden data setting affect the username, display name, and Billing Policy ID.
） Note: The author created this article with assistance from AI. Learn more

--- Page 1420 of 2193 ---
Last updated on 05/21/2026

--- Page 1421 of 2193 ---
Microsoft Dynamics 365 Customer Voice
activity report
The Microsoft Dynamics 365 Customer Voice activity report provides insight into the activity of
every user licensed to use it by looking at their interactions with it. The report also helps you
understand the level of collaboration going on by looking at the number of Pro Surveys created
and Pro Surveys to which the users responded.
For general information about usage reports in the Microsoft 365 admin center, and to see a list
of all available reports, see Microsoft 365 admin center usage reports overview.
View the Dynamics 365 Customer Voice activity report
For information about the roles needed to view usage reports, see "Before you begin" in
Microsoft 365 admin center usage reports overview
1. Go to the Microsoft 365 admin center .
2. In the navigation menu, select Reports. If you don't see Reports, select Show all, and then
select Reports.
3. Select Usage .
4. On the Usage dashboard homepage, on the Dynamics 365 Customer Voice card, select
View more.
Interpret the Dynamics 365 Customer Voice
activity report
The report displays trends over the last 7, 30, 90, or 180 days. However, if you select a particular
day in the report, the table shows data for up to 28 days from the current date, not the date the
report was generated.

--- Page 1422 of 2193 ---

To add or remove columns from the report, select Choose columns.

To export the report data into an Excel .csv file, select Export. This action exports the usage data
of all users and enables you to do simple sorting, filtering, and searching for further analysis.
The following table contains definitions of the metrics available in the report.
ﾉ Expand table
Metric Definition
Username The email address of the user who performed the activity on Microsoft Forms.
Last activity date The latest date the user performed a form activity for the selected date range. To see
(UTC) activity that occurred on a specific date, select the date directly in the chart.

--- Page 1423 of 2193 ---
Metric Definition
This action filters the table to display file activity data only for users who performed
the activity on that specific day.
Number of surveys The number of surveys that the user created.
created
Number of survey The number of responses from responders to whom the survey was distributed.
responses
７ Note
By default, user-specific information like usernames, display names, groups, and sites is
hidden in usage reports. To learn how to display this information in usage reports, see Show
user, group, or site details in usage reports.
） Note: The author created this article with assistance from AI. Learn more
Last updated on 05/19/2026

--- Page 1424 of 2193 ---
Email activity report
The Email activity report provides a high-level view of email traffic within your organization. Use
the Email activity report to understand the trends and per-user level details of the email activity
within your organization.
７ Note
The Email activity report is only available for mailboxes that are associated with users who
have licenses.
For general information about usage reports in the Microsoft 365 admin center, and to see a list
of all available reports, see Microsoft 365 admin center usage reports overview.
View the Email activity report
For information about the roles needed to view usage reports, see "Before you begin" in
Microsoft 365 admin center usage reports overview
1. Go to the Microsoft 365 admin center .
2. In the navigation menu, select Reports. If you don't see Reports, select Show all, and then
select Reports.
3. Select Usage .
4. On the Usage page, under Reports, select Exchange.
5. On the report page, select the Email activity tab.
Interpret the Email activity report
The Email activity report displays trends over the last 7, 30, 90, or 180 days. However, if you select
a particular day in the report, the table shows data for up to 28 days from the current date (not
the date the report was generated). The data in each report usually covers up to the last 24 to 48
hours.
You can view your users' email activity by looking at the Activity and Users charts.

--- Page 1425 of 2193 ---

The Activity chart helps you understand the trend of the amount of email activity going on in
your organization. You can see the split of email send, email read, email received, meeting
created, or meeting interacted activities. On the Activity chart, the Y axis is the count of activity of
the type email sent, email received, email read, meeting created, and meeting interacted.
The User chart helps you understand the trend of the number of unique users who are
generating the email activities. You can look at the trend of users performing email sending,
email reading, email receiving, meeting creating, or meeting interacting activities. On the Users
activity chart, the Y axis is the users performing activity of the type email sent, email received,
email read, meeting created, or meeting interacted.
The X axis on both charts is the selected date range for this specific report.
You can filter the series you see on either chart by selecting an item in the legend.
To add or remove columns from the report, select Choose columns.

--- Page 1426 of 2193 ---

To export the report data into an Excel .csv file, select Export. This action exports the usage data
of all users and enables you to do simple sorting, filtering, and searching for further analysis.
The following table shows a breakdown of the email activities at the per-user level. This data
shows all users that have an Exchange product assigned to them and their email activities.
ﾉ Expand table
Metric Definition
Username The email address of the user.
Display name The full name of the user.
Deleted Refers to the user whose current state is deleted, but was active during some part of
the reporting period of the report.
Deleted date The date the user was deleted.
Last activity date The last time the user performed a read or send email activity.
Send actions The number of times an email send action was recorded for the user.

--- Page 1427 of 2193 ---
Metric Definition
Receive actions The number of times an email received action was recorded for the user.
Read actions The number of times an email read action was recorded for the user.
Meeting created The number of times a meeting request send action was recorded for the user.
actions
Meeting interacted The number of times a meeting request accept, tentative, decline, or cancel action
actions was recorded for the user.
Product assigned The products that are assigned to this user.
７ Note
By default, user-specific information like usernames, display names, groups, and sites is
hidden in usage reports. To learn how to display this information in usage reports, see Show
user, group, or site details in usage reports.
） Note: The author created this article with assistance from AI. Learn more
Last updated on 05/21/2026

--- Page 1428 of 2193 ---
Exchange email app usage report
The Exchange email app usage report provides details about how many email apps connect to
Exchange Online. You can view the version information of Outlook apps that users are using. This
information helps you follow up with those users who are using unsupported versions to install
supported versions of Outlook.
For general information about usage reports in the Microsoft 365 admin center, and to see a list
of all available reports, see Microsoft 365 admin center usage reports overview.
View the email apps report
For information about the roles needed to view usage reports, see "Before you begin" in
Microsoft 365 admin center usage reports overview
1. Go to the Microsoft 365 admin center .
2. In the navigation menu, select Reports. If you don't see Reports, select Show all, and then
select Reports.
3. Select Usage .
4. On the Usage page, under Reports, select Exchange, and then select the Email app usage
tab.
Interpret the Exchange email app usage report
The report displays trends over the last 7, 30, 90, or 180 days. However, if you select a particular
day in the report, the table shows data for up to 28 days from the current date, not the date the
report generated. The data in each report usually covers up to the last 24 to 48 hours.

--- Page 1429 of 2193 ---

The Users chart shows the number of unique users that connected to Exchange Online by using
any email app. The Y axis is the total count of unique users that connected to an app on any day
of the reporting period. The X axis is the number of unique users that used the app for that
reporting period.
The Apps chart shows the number of unique users by app over the selected time period. The Y
axis is the total count of unique users who used a specific app during the reporting period. The X
axis is the list of apps in your organization.
The Versions chart shows the number of unique users for each version of Outlook in Windows.
The Y axis is the total count of unique users using a specific version of Outlook desktop. If the
report can't resolve the version number of Outlook, the quantity shows as Undetermined. The X
axis is the list of apps in your organization.
You can filter the series you see on the charts by selecting an item in the legend. You might not
see all the items in the list in the columns until you add them.
To add or remove columns from the report, select Choose columns.

--- Page 1430 of 2193 ---

To export the report data into an Excel .csv file, select Export. This action exports the usage data
of all users and enables you to do simple sorting, filtering, and searching for further analysis.
The following table contains definitions of the metrics available in the report.
ﾉ Expand table
Metric Definition
Username The name of the email app's owner.
Last activity date The latest date the user read or sent an email
message.
Mac mail, Mac Outlook, Outlook, Outlook mobile, and Examples of email apps you might have in your
Outlook on the web organization.
７ Note

--- Page 1431 of 2193 ---
By default, user-specific information like usernames, display names, groups, and sites is
hidden in usage reports. To learn how to display this information in usage reports, see Show
user, group, or site details in usage reports.
） Note: The author created this article with assistance from AI. Learn more
Last updated on 05/19/2026

--- Page 1432 of 2193 ---
Enable developers to use app analytics in
the Developer Portal for Teams
In the Microsoft 365 admin center, the App usage for custom app setting allows enterprise
app developers to view and use app analytics for company apps in the Developer Portal.
Developer Portal is a tool for managing apps and agents built for Copilot and Microsoft 365
apps. By viewing custom app usage, enterprise developers can see the number of active users
and get other insights. Admins can allow app usage for your custom apps to be shown in the
Developer Portal.

To enable the setting, in the Microsoft 365 Admin Center, sign in with the Teams admin role or
Global admin role, and under Org settings, select Developer Portal for Teams and then enable
the setting in the flyout pane as shown in the following image:

--- Page 1433 of 2193 ---
） Important
Microsoft recommends that you use roles with the fewest permissions. Using roles with
the fewest permissions helps improve security for your organization. Global Administrator
is a highly privileged role that should be limited to emergency scenarios when you can't
use an existing role. For more information, see About administrator roles in the Microsoft
365 admin center.
How will this setting affect admins and their
organization?
By default, the App usage for custom apps setting is disabled. When you enable this setting,
enterprise developers are provided with better insights into the performance and user
engagement of custom apps, helping them make informed decisions about app improvements.
If this setting is disabled, developers may be prevented from understanding app usage and
other insights, causing disruptive change to their workflow.
What actions are needed from admins?

--- Page 1434 of 2193 ---
To enable enterprise developers to view app usage, enable the setting in Microsoft 365 admin
center -> Settings -> Org settings -> Services -> Developer Portal for Teams. Developers
should be able to take advantage of the new experience right away.
What do developers need to do?
Developers can configure access to analytics for company apps by following the guidance in
Analyze app usage in Developer Portal.
Related articles
Analyze App Usage in Developer Portal
Microsoft Teams app usage report
Last updated on 10/30/2025

--- Page 1435 of 2193 ---
Exchange Web Services (EWS) usage report
The Exchange Web Services (EWS) usage report displays the SOAP actions used by each
application calling EWS in your organization. It also shows the successful-call volume for each
SOAP action. This information enables you to coordinate with the application owners to ensure
they're preparing for the EWS deprecation in October 2026 .
For general information about usage reports in the Microsoft 365 admin center, and to see a list
of all available reports, see Microsoft 365 admin center usage reports overview.
View the EWS usage report
For information about the roles needed to view usage reports, see "Before you begin" in
Microsoft 365 admin center usage reports overview
1. Go to the Microsoft 365 admin center .
2. In the navigation menu, select Reports. If you don't see Reports, select Show all, and then
select Reports.
3. Select Usage .
4. On the Usage page, under Reports, select Exchange.
5. On the report page, select the EWS usage tab.
Interpret the EWS usage report
You can filter the EWS usage report by the last 7, 30, or 90 days.
７ Note
Usage data is collected and aggregated weekly, not daily.
To review the applications that use EWS within your organization, examine the Usage trend and
Usage details sections. Additionally, summarized information at the top provides an overview of
the overall usage.

--- Page 1436 of 2193 ---

Summary data
Two summary headers appear at the top of the page:
Active apps shows the number of unique apps that sent at least one request to EWS during
the selected period.
Daily average call volume shows the average number of daily requests from active apps
during the selected period.
Usage trend chart
The usage trend chart displays the projected EWS usage trend in your tenant, using weekly data
points that summarize all active apps in your tenant that use EWS during that week. The Y-axis
represents the number of apps, and the X-axis indicates the first date of the week within the
selected period.
Usage details table
The following table provides a breakdown of the EWS usage per SOAP action by each active
application in your tenant during the selected period. You can't customize the columns.
ﾉ Expand table
Metric Definition
Application ID The Microsoft Entra identifier for the registered application
SOAP Action The specific Exchange Web Service SOAP action executed

--- Page 1437 of 2193 ---
Metric Definition
Call Volume The number of SOAP action calls in the given period
Last Activity date (UTC) The last date of activity recorded for that app and SOAP action
To export the report data into an Excel .csv file, select Export. This action exports the usage data
of all users and enables you to do simple sorting, filtering, and searching for further analysis.
For a list of Microsoft first-party client application IDs, see Commonly used Microsoft first-party
services and portal apps. For Microsoft applications, Microsoft periodically updates those apps to
remove EWS dependencies. Keep your client applications up-to-date. If you still can't find the
Application ID, check your Enterprise Applications in Microsoft Entra ID. For more information,
see Quickstart: View enterprise applications.
） Note: The author created this article with assistance from AI. Learn more
Last updated on 05/21/2026

--- Page 1438 of 2193 ---
Forms activity report
The Forms activity report provides details about user interaction with forms for every user
licensed to use Microsoft Forms. The report also helps you understand the level of collaboration
by showing the number of forms created and the number of forms the user responded to.
For general information about usage reports in the Microsoft 365 admin center, and to see a list
of all available reports, see Microsoft 365 admin center usage reports overview.
View the Forms activity report
For information about the roles needed to view usage reports, see "Before you begin" in
Microsoft 365 admin center usage reports overview
1. Go to the Microsoft 365 admin center .
2. In the navigation menu, select Reports. If you don't see Reports, select Show all, and then
select Reports.
3. Select Usage .
4. On the Usage page, under Reports, select Forms.
Interpret the Forms activity report
The report displays trends over the last 7, 30, 90, or 180 days. However, if you select a particular
day in the report, the table shows data for up to 28 days from the current date, not the date the
report generated.

To add or remove columns from the report, select Choose columns.

--- Page 1439 of 2193 ---

To export the report data into an Excel .csv file, select Export. This action exports the usage data
of all users and enables you to do simple sorting, filtering, and searching for further analysis.
The following table contains definitions of the metrics available in the report.
ﾉ Expand table
Metric Definition
Username The email address of the user who performed the activity in Microsoft Forms.
Last activity The latest date a user performed a form activity for the selected date range. To see
date (UTC) activity that occurred on a specific date, select the date directly in the chart. This filter
displays file activity data only for users who performed the activity on that specific day.
Number of The number of forms that the user created.
forms created
Number of The number of forms that the user submitted responses to.
forms
responded
７ Note
By default, user-specific information like usernames, display names, groups, and sites is
hidden in usage reports. To learn how to display this information in usage reports, see Show
user, group, or site details in usage reports.
） Note: The author created this article with assistance from AI. Learn more
Last updated on 05/19/2026

--- Page 1440 of 2193 ---
Mailbox usage report
The Mailbox usage report provides information about users with a user mailbox and the level of
activity by each user. Activity is based on the email send, read, create appointment, send meeting,
accept meeting, decline meeting, and cancel meeting activity. The report provides information
about how much storage each user mailbox consumes, and how many of them are approaching
storage quotas. The mailbox usage report also contains information about mailboxes shared
among users, providing storage and quota data on shared mailboxes.
For general information about usage reports in the Microsoft 365 admin center, and to see a list
of all available reports, see Microsoft 365 admin center usage reports overview.
View the Mailbox usage report
For information about the roles needed to view usage reports, see "Before you begin" in
Microsoft 365 admin center usage reports overview).
1. Go to the Microsoft 365 admin center .
2. In the navigation menu, select Reports. If you don't see Reports, select Show all, and then
select Reports.
3. Select Usage .
4. On the Usage page, under Reports, select Exchange.
5. On the report page, select the Email activity tab.
6. Under Email activity, select View More.
7. From the Email activity drop-down list, select Exchange > Mailbox usage.
Interpret the Mailbox usage report
You can view the Mailbox usage report for trends over the last 7, 30, 90, or 180 days. However, if
you select a particular day in the report, the table shows data for up to 28 days from the current
date (not the date the report generated). The data in each report usually covers up to the last 24
to 48 hours.
You can view your organization's mailbox usage by looking at the Mailbox, Storage, and Quota
charts.
To access shared mailbox information, change the drop-down selection at the top right of the
charts to Shared. If your tenant doesn't have shared mailboxes, you can't view any shared

--- Page 1441 of 2193 ---
mailbox information.
７ Note
You can't currently export the summary chart information for shared mailboxes. This known
issue will be corrected in a future update.

To add or remove columns from the report, select Choose columns.

--- Page 1442 of 2193 ---

To export the report data into an Excel .csv file, select Export. This action exports the usage data
of all users and enables you to do simple sorting, filtering, and searching for further analysis.
The Mailbox chart
The Mailbox chart shows the total number of user or shared mailboxes in your organization, and
the total number of user mailboxes that are active on any given day of the reporting period. A
user mailbox is active if it had an email activity that included at least one of the following actions:
Send
Read

--- Page 1443 of 2193 ---
Create appointment
Send meeting
Accept meeting
Decline meeting
Cancel meeting activity
７ Note
Shared mailboxes don't have activity independent of a user mailbox, so the report shows
only a count of shared mailboxes when you select this mailbox type.
On the Mailbox chart:
The Y axis is the number of user or shared mailboxes.
The X axis is the selected date range for this specific report.
The Storage chart
The Storage chart shows the amount of storage used in your organization by mailbox type. The
Storage chart doesn't include archive mailboxes. For more information about auto-expanding
archiving, see Overview of auto-expanding archiving in Microsoft 365.
On the Storage chart:
The Y axis is the amount of storage used by user or shared mailboxes in your organization.
The X axis is the selected date range for this specific report.
The Quota chart
The Quota chart shows the number of user or shared mailboxes in each quota category. There
are four quota categories:
Good: The number of users or shared mailboxes whose storage used is below the "issue
warning" quota.
Warning: The number of users or shared mailboxes whose storage used is at or above the
"issue warning" quota, but below the "prohibit send" quota.
Can't send: The number of users or shared mailboxes whose storage used is at or above the
"prohibit send" quota, but below the "prohibit send/receive" quota.
Can't send/receive: The number of users or shared mailboxes whose storage used is at or
above the "prohibit send/receive" quota.

--- Page 1444 of 2193 ---
On the Quota chart:
The Y axis is the number of user or shared mailboxes in each storage quota.
The X axis is the quota category.
Filter the charts you see by selecting an item in the legend.
Mailbox usage per mailbox table
The following table shows a breakdown of mailbox usage at the per mailbox level.
ﾉ Expand table
Metric Definition
Recipient type Either Shared or User.
User name The email address of the user.
Display Name The full name of the user.
Deleted The mailbox whose current state is deleted, but was active during some part of
the reporting period of the report.
Deleted date The date the mailbox was deleted.
Create date The date the mailbox was created.
Last activity date The date the mailbox last had an email send or read activity.
Item count The total number of items in the mailbox.
Storage used (MB) The total storage used.
Deleted Item Count The total number of recoverable items in the mailbox.
Deleted Item Size (MB) The total size of all recoverable items in the mailbox.
Issue warning quota The mailbox storage limit when the mailbox owner receives a warning that it's
(MB) about to hit the storage quota.
Prohibit send quota (MB) The mailbox storage limit when the mailbox can no longer send emails.
Prohibit send receive The mailbox storage limit when the mailbox can no longer send or receive
quota (MB) emails.
Recoverable Item Quota The mailbox storage limit for recoverable (deleted) items in the mailbox when
(MB) the mailbox can no longer delete emails.
Report Period The time period for which the report is available.

--- Page 1445 of 2193 ---
Metric Definition
Has Archive Shows if the mailbox has an online archive enabled.
７ Note
By default, user-specific information like usernames, display names, groups, and sites is
hidden in usage reports. To learn how to display this information in usage reports, see Show
user, group, or site details in usage reports.
To learn more about the recoverable items folder, see Recoverable Items folder in Exchange
Online.
） Note: The author created this article with assistance from AI. Learn more
Last updated on 05/21/2026

--- Page 1446 of 2193 ---
Office activations report
The Office Activations report provides details about which users activated their Office
subscription on at least one device. It provides a breakdown of the Microsoft 365 Apps for
enterprise, Project, and Visio Pro for Microsoft 365 subscription activations, as well as the
breakdown of activations across desktop and devices. This report can help you identify users who
might need extra help and support to activate their Office subscription.
For general information about usage reports in the Microsoft 365 admin center, and to see a list
of all available reports, see Microsoft 365 admin center usage reports overview.
View the Office activations report
For information about the roles needed to view usage reports, see "Before you begin" in
Microsoft 365 admin center usage reports overview
1. Go to the Microsoft 365 admin center .
2. In the navigation menu, select Reports. If you don't see Reports, select Show all, and then
select Reports.
3. Select Usage .
4. On the Usage page, under Reports, select Microsoft 365 apps, and then select the
Activations tab.
Interpret the Office activations report

To add or remove columns from the report, select Choose columns.

--- Page 1447 of 2193 ---

To export the report data into an Excel .csv file, select Export. This action exports the usage data
of all users and enables you to do simple sorting, filtering, and searching for further analysis.
The following table contains definitions of the metrics available in the report.
ﾉ Expand table
Metric Definition
Username The email address of the user.
Display name The full name of the user.
Product licenses The products that are assigned to this user.
Last activated date(UTC) The date the user activated Microsoft 365 on a desktop or a device.
Activation on Windows computers The number of Windows desktops a user activated Microsoft 365
on.
Activation on Mac computers The number of Mac desktops a user activated Microsoft 365 on.
Activation on Windows 10 phones The number of Windows 10 mobile devices a user activated
and tablets Microsoft 365 on.

--- Page 1448 of 2193 ---
Metric Definition
Activation on iOS phones and tablets The number of iOS devices a user activated Microsoft 365 on.
Activation on Android phones and The number of Android devices a user activated Microsoft 365 on.
tablets
Used Shared Computer Activation This metric is true if the user used Microsoft 365 through shared
computer activation.
７ Note
By default, user-specific information like usernames, display names, groups, and sites is
hidden in usage reports. To learn how to display this information in usage reports, see Show
user, group, or site details in usage reports.
） Note: The author created this article with assistance from AI. Learn more
Last updated on 05/19/2026

--- Page 1449 of 2193 ---
Microsoft 365 Reports in the admin center -
Microsoft Teams apps usage reports
The Microsoft 365 Reports dashboard shows you the activity overview across the products in
your organization. It enables you to drill in to individual product level reports to give you more
granular insight about the activities within each product. Check out the Reports overview article.
In the Microsoft Teams app usage report, you can gain insights into the Teams apps activity in
your organization. This article explains how to access the report and view and interpret the
various metrics within the report.
You can use this report to understand who is installing/using apps, and deep dive on a per-app
and per-user level.
What's in the report
The Teams app usage report is available in the Microsoft 365 admin center and the data is
provided through two separate reports:
App usage - This report helps you answer:
How many apps have users in your environment installed?
How many apps have at least one active user in your environment?
How many apps are being used by platform (Windows, Mac, Web, or mobile)?
How many active users and active teams are using the app?
User activity - This report helps you answer:
How many users in your environment installed at least one app?
How many users in your environment used at least one app?
How many users are using an app across platforms (Windows, Mac, Web, etc.)?
How many apps has each user used?
How to get to the Microsoft Teams apps usage report
1. In the admin center, go to the Reports > Usage page.
2. From the dashboard homepage, select the View more button on the Microsoft Teams apps
activity card.

--- Page 1450 of 2193 ---
Considerations
Usage/installs data for a newly published app can take about five days to show up in the
report. Data for a given day shows up within 48 hours. For example, data for January 10
should show up in the report by around January 12.
The start date for all installs metrics is October 2021. Only apps installed after that date are
counted.
App IDs in this report are the External (manifest) App IDs. For more information on how to
tie this ID to an app in the Manage Apps experience in Teams admin center, see Manage
app setup policies in Microsoft Teams.
You can export the report data into an Excel .csv file by selecting the Export link. This
exports data for all users/apps and enables you to do simple sorting and filtering for further
analysis.
Exploring the report - App usage tab
You can view the App usage in the Teams app usage report by choosing the Apps usage tab.

--- Page 1451 of 2193 ---

On the top of the report, three charts describe cross-app trends across your organization.
Apps installed
Apps used
Platform
You can filter all charts by the time range picker in the top right.
Apps installed
This chart shows you the total number of app installs across your organization up to each date
within the selected period. For example - if you select January 28, 2022, the chart will show you
the total number of installs from October 2021 up to January 28, 2022.

--- Page 1452 of 2193 ---
Apps used
This chart shows you the number of apps used across your organization on each date within the
selected period. For example - if you select January 28, the chart will show you the total number
of apps used on January 28.
Platform
This chart shows you the number of apps used across your organization by platform for the
selected period. Available platforms are Windows, Mac, Mobile (across iOS and Android), and

--- Page 1453 of 2193 ---
Web.
Apps usage details table
This table shows you per-app view with the following metrics for each app. A subset of the metric
columns are included by default, and you can select/edit the column list by clicking on Choose
columns in the top right.

ﾉ Expand table
Metric Definition Included by
default?
App ID The external App identifiers present in the app manifest. Yes
Last used date The date when that app was last used by anyone in your organization. Yes
Teams using The number of distinct Teams teams that have at least one user using Yes
this app this app.

--- Page 1454 of 2193 ---
Metric Definition Included by
default?
Users using The number of distinct users in your organization that are using this Yes
this app app.
Used on This value indicates whether that app was on Windows by at least one Yes
Windows user in your organization.
Used on This value indicates whether that app was on Mobile by at least one user Yes
Mobile in your organization.
Used on Web This value indicates whether that app was used on Web by at least one Yes
user in your organization.
Used on Mac The number of ad hoc meetings a user organized during the specified No
time period.
App name The Name of this application as present in the app manifest. No
Publisher The publisher of this application as present in the app manifest. This No
metric is only available for apps published to the global Store.
Exploring the report - Teams apps usage user
activity tab
You can view the user activity in the Teams app usage report by choosing the User activity tab.

On the top of the report, three charts describe cross-app trends across your organization.

--- Page 1455 of 2193 ---
Users who installed apps
Users who used apps
Platform
You can filter all charts by the time range picker in the top right.
Users who have installed apps
This chart shows you the total number of unique users that have installed an app up to each date
within the selected period. For example - if you select January 28, 2022 the chart will show you
the total number of users from October 2021 up to January 28, 2022.
Users who have used apps
This chart shows you the number of unique users that have used any app on each date within the
selected period. For example - if you select January 28, the chart will show you the total number
of users on January 28.

--- Page 1456 of 2193 ---
Platform
This chart shows you the number of apps used across your organization by platform for the
selected period. Available platforms are Windows, Mac, Mobile (across iOS and Android), and
Web.
User activity details table

--- Page 1457 of 2193 ---
This table shows you per-user view with the following metrics for each app. A subset of the
metric columns are included by default, and you can select/edit the column list by clicking on
Choose columns in the top right.

ﾉ Expand table
Metric Definition Included by
default?
User name The User name for a unique user. Value is concealed by default. Yes
Apps installed The number of unique apps (across Store and custom) that the user has Yes
installed.
Apps used The number of unique apps (across Store and custom) that the user has Yes
opened and/or used.
Apps used in a The number of unique apps (across Store and custom) that the user has Yes
Team opened and/or used in a team in Microsoft Teams.
Used on This value indicates whether that user used any app on Windows. Yes
Windows
Used on This value indicates whether that user used any app on Mobile (iOS or Yes
Mobile Android).
Used on Web This value indicates whether that user used any app on Web. Yes
Used on Mac This value indicates whether that user used any app on Mac. No
Managing apps in the Teams admin center
For more information about how to manage your Teams apps, refer to About apps in Microsoft
Teams.
To link an app in this report to the Manage Apps experience in Teams admin center, you can use
the following items:
App Name

--- Page 1458 of 2193 ---
External App ID
External App IDs are equivalent to the ID in the Manage apps page for Store apps. For custom
apps, to view External App ID in the Manage Apps page, follow the instructions on Manage apps
setup policies in Microsoft Teams to add the column in the column settings. You can also view it
on the app details page for a custom app.
FAQ
I've blocked the Teams app in the Teams admin center. Why
does it still show usage in the apps usage report in Teams
admin center?
Even if an app is blocked in the Teams admin center, usage signals might still appear in the Teams
app usage report or in the Microsoft 365 Teams app usage report. This can happen due to
passive user interactions, such as viewing a card posted by the app in a chat or channel. These
interactions can generate telemetry without the user actively launching or interacting with the
app.
If I've blocked a Teams app in the Teams admin center, is it still
being used?
No. Blocking the app in the Teams admin center prevents users from launching or executing it.
The app is not running, and users cannot interact with it directly. However, the usage report
includes a broader range of signals beyond just app launches.
Is the app usage report inaccurate?
The report is accurate, but it is intentionally inclusive. It reflects a wider set of usage types,
including passive views of app content. This provides visibility into all the ways users may be
exposed to app functionality, even if the app is blocked from active use.
Does blocking an app in Teams admin center stop all usage
across Microsoft 365?
No. Blocking an app in the Teams admin center prevents users from installing or launching it in
Teams. It does not block passive exposure or usage in other Microsoft 365 surfaces like Outlook
or the Microsoft 365 app.

--- Page 1459 of 2193 ---
The app must be blocked in the Teams admin center and the Microsoft 365 admin center. If your
organization uses Unified app management, settings made in one admin center will sync with the
other. This synchronization does not prevent passive usage.
Will the report differentiate between "passive" usage vs
"actual" usage in the report, so I can be certain there is no app
usage occurring?
Currently, there are no plans to separate passive usage from active usage in the report.
Last updated on 05/22/2025

--- Page 1460 of 2193 ---
Microsoft Teams device usage report
The Microsoft Teams device usage report provides an overview of device usage activity in Teams,
including the number of daily active users by device type. You can quickly see what devices
licensed users across your organization are using to access Teams.
For general information about usage reports in the Microsoft 365 admin center, and to see a list
of all available reports, see Microsoft 365 admin center usage reports overview.
View the Microsoft Teams device usage report
For information about the roles needed to view usage reports, see "Before you begin" in
Microsoft 365 admin center usage reports overview
1. Go to the Microsoft 365 admin center .
2. In the navigation menu, select Reports. If you don't see Reports, select Show all, and then
select Reports.
3. Select Usage .
4. On the Usage page, under Reports, select Microsoft Teams, and then select the Device
usage tab.
Interpret the Microsoft Teams device usage report
The report displays trends over the last 7, 30, 90, or 180 days. However, if you select a particular
day in the report, the table shows data for up to 28 days from the current date, not the date the
report generated.

To add or remove columns from the report, select Choose columns.

--- Page 1461 of 2193 ---

To export the report data into an Excel .csv file, select Export. This action exports the usage data
of all users and enables you to do simple sorting, filtering, and searching for further analysis.
The following table contains definitions of the metrics available in the report.
ﾉ Expand table
Metric Definition
User name The display name of the user.
Windows Selected if the user was active in the Teams desktop client on a Windows-based
computer.
Mac Selected if the user was active in the Teams desktop client on a macOS computer.
iOS Selected if the user was active on the Teams mobile client for iOS.
Android phone Selected if the user was active on the Teams mobile client for Android.
Chrome OS Selected if the user was active in the Teams desktop client on a ChromeOS

--- Page 1462 of 2193 ---
Metric Definition
computer.
Linux Selected if the user was active in the Teams desktop client on a Linux computer.
Web Selected if the user was active in the Teams web client on devices.
Last activity date The last date (UTC) that the user participated in a Teams activity.
(UTC)
Is licensed Selected if the user is licensed to use Teams.
７ Note
By default, user-specific information like usernames, display names, groups, and sites is
hidden in usage reports. To learn how to display this information in usage reports, see Show
user, group, or site details in usage reports.
Related content
Microsoft Teams user activity report (article)
Microsoft Teams usage activity report (article)
） Note: The author created this article with assistance from AI. Learn more
Last updated on 05/19/2026

--- Page 1463 of 2193 ---
Microsoft Teams usage report - Microsoft
365 admin center
The Microsoft Teams usage report provides an overview of the usage activity in Teams,
including the number of active users, channels, and messages. You can quickly see how many
users across your organization are using Teams to communicate and collaborate. The report
also includes other Teams-specific activities, like the number of active guests, meetings, and
messages.
For general information about Microsoft 365 Usage reports and to see a list of all available
reports, see Microsoft 365 admin center usage reports overview.

View the Microsoft Teams usage report
For information about the roles needed to view usage reports, see Microsoft 365 admin center
usage reports overview.
1. Go to the Microsoft 365 admin center .
2. In the navigation menu, select Reports. If you don't see Reports, select Show all, and then
select Reports.
3. Select Usage .

--- Page 1464 of 2193 ---
4. On the Usage page, under Reports, select Microsoft Teams.
5. On the report page, select the Team usage tab.
Interpret the Team usage report
Use the Team usage report to view channel and team usage, including data about individual
teams. The Team usage tab displays the following charts:
Channel usage: Tracks the number of channel uses, by activity type, over time.

Team usage: Tracks the number of teams, by type and activity, over time.

Additionally, the chart includes usage details for individual teams, such as last activity date,
active users, active channels, and other data.

--- Page 1465 of 2193 ---

In the table, select Choose columns to add or remove columns from the report.


--- Page 1466 of 2193 ---
Select the Export link to export the report data into an Excel .csv file. This action exports data
for all users and enables you to do simple sorting and filtering for further analysis. The
exported format for audio time, video time, and screen share time follows ISO8601 duration
format.
You can view the Microsoft Teams usage activity report for trends over the last 7, 30, 90, or
180 days. However, if you select a particular day in the report, the table shows data for up to 28
days from the current date (not the date the report was generated).
７ Note
Activity dates in this report are based on Coordinated Universal Time (UTC). Post counts
attributed to a given day reflect messages sent between 12:00 AM and 11:59 PM UTC,
which might differ from your organization's local time zone.
To ensure data quality, the system performs daily data validation checks for the past three days
and fills any detected gaps. You might notice differences in historical data during the process.
） Important
Data for a given day appears within 48 hours. For example, data for January 10th appears
in the report by January 12th.
Channel usage metrics
The Channel usage chart shows data about the following metrics.
ﾉ Expand table
Metric Definition
Active This metric is the total of internal active users, active guests, and external active users.
channel
users Internal active users - Users that have at least one panel action in the specified time
period. This metric excludes guests.
Active guests - Guests that have at least one panel action in the specified time period. A
guest is a person from outside your organization who accesses shared resources by
signing in to a guest account in my directory.
External active user - External participants that have at least one panel action in the
specified time period. An external participant is a person from outside your organization

--- Page 1467 of 2193 ---
Metric Definition
who is participating in a resource – such as a shared channel – using their own identity and
not a guest account in your directory.
Active Valid channels in active teams that have at least one active user in the specified time
channels period. This metric includes public, private, or shared channels.
Channel The number of unique messages that the user posted in a private chat during the specified
messages time period.
７ Note
Panel action refers to any action taken by the user in the panel within Microsoft Teams.
Team usage metrics
The Teams usage chart shows data on the following metrics.
ﾉ Expand table
Metric Definition
Private teams A private team that is either active or inactive.
Public teams A public team that is either active or inactive.
Active private teams A team that is private and active.
Active public teams A team that is public and active.
Teams details
You can view data for the following metrics for individual teams.
ﾉ Expand table
Metric Definition
Team ID Team identifier
Internal active Users that have at least one panel action in the specified time period, including guests.
users
Internal users and guests that reside in the same tenant. Internal users exclude guests.

--- Page 1468 of 2193 ---
Metric Definition
Active guests Guests that have at least one panel action in the specified time period.
A guest is defined as persons from outside your organization who access shared
resources by signing in to a guest account in my directory.
External active External participants that have at least one panel action in the specified time period.
users
An external participant is defined as a person from outside your organization who is
participating in a resource – such as a shared channel – using their own identity and not
a guest account in your directory.
Active Valid channels in active teams that have at least one active user in the specified time
channels period. This metric includes public, private, or shared channels.
Active shared Valid shared channels in active teams that have at least one active user in the specified
channels time.
A shared channel is defined as a Teams channel that you can share with people outside
the team. These people can be inside your organization or from other Microsoft Entra
organizations.
NOTE: For shared channels that include external users, the report might undercount the
number of active shared channels due to current telemetry limitations.
Total The sum of one-time scheduled, recurring, ad hoc, and unclassified meetings a user
organized organized during the specified time period.
meetings
Posts Count of all the post messages originally created in a channel during the specified time
period. Cross-posted messages are counted only in the channel where they were
originally created and aren't included in the post count of channels that received the
cross-post.
Replies Count of all the reply messages in channels in the specified time period.
Mentions Count of all mentions made in the specified time period.
Reactions Number of reactions an active user made in the specified time period.
Urgent Count of urgent messages in the specified time period.
messages
Channel The number of unique messages that the user posted in a team chat during the specified
messages time period.
Last activity The latest date that any member of the team committed an action.
date

--- Page 1469 of 2193 ---
By default, user-specific information like username and display name is hidden in usage
reports. To learn how to display this information in usage reports, see Show user, group, or site
details in usage reports.
７ Note
Metric counts include Teams client built-in features, but don't include changes to chat and
channel through service integration, such as Teams app posts or replies and emails in the
channel.
Related content
Microsoft Teams device usage report (article)
Microsoft Teams user activity report (article)
） Note: The author created this article with assistance from AI. Learn more
Last updated on 04/03/2026

--- Page 1470 of 2193 ---
Microsoft Teams user activity report
The Microsoft Teams user activity report provides insights into the Microsoft Teams activity in
your organization.
For general information about usage reports in the Microsoft 365 admin center, and to see a list
of all available reports, see Microsoft 365 admin center usage reports overview.
View the Microsoft Teams user activity report
For information about the roles needed to view usage reports, see "Before you begin" in
Microsoft 365 admin center usage reports overview
1. Go to the Microsoft 365 admin center .
2. In the navigation menu, select Reports. If you don't see Reports, select Show all, and then
select Reports.
3. Select Usage .
4. On the Usage page, under Reports, select Microsoft Teams.
5. On the report page, select the User activity tab.
Interpret the Microsoft Teams user activity report
You can view the Microsoft Teams user activity report for trends over the last 7, 30, 90, or 180
days. However, if you select a particular day in the report, the table shows data for up to 28 days
from the current date (not the date the report was generated).
To ensure data quality, the system performs daily data validation checks for the past three days
and fills any detected gaps. You might notice differences in historical data during this process.

--- Page 1471 of 2193 ---

To add or remove columns from the report, select Choose columns.

--- Page 1473 of 2193 ---

To export the report data into an Excel .csv file, select Export. This action exports the usage data
of all users and enables you to do simple sorting, filtering, and searching for further analysis.
The exported format for audio time, video time, and screen share time follows ISO 8601
duration format.
ﾉ Expand table
Metric Mapped Definition
metric in
export
User name User Principal The email address of the user. You can display the actual email address
Name or make this field anonymous.
Tenant name Tenant Display The name of an internal or external tenant where a user belongs.
Name
If a user belongs to an external tenant, corresponding data metrics like
post messages or reply messages, are calculated based on their
interactions in shared channels of the admin's tenant. Interactions
done by the user in their own tenant (outside of shared channels of
the given tenant) aren't considered for the admin usage report of
given tenant.
Is external Is External Indicates if the user is an external user or not.
Shared channel Shared Channel The names of internal or external tenants of shared channels where
tenant names Tenant Display the user participated.
Names
Channel Team Chat The number of unique messages that the user posted in a team chat
messages Message Count during the specified time period. This count includes original posts
and replies.
Posts Post Messages The number of post messages in all channels during the specified time
period. A post is the original message in a teams chat.
Replies Reply Messages The number of replied messages in all channels during the specified
time period.

--- Page 1474 of 2193 ---
Metric Mapped Definition
metric in
export
Urgent Urgent The number of urgent messages during the specified time period.
messages Messages
Chat messages Private Chat The number of unique messages that the user posted in a private chat
Message Count during the specified time period.
Total meetings Meeting Count Refer to the "Total participated meetings" metric, as defined later in
this table, as the current metric and "Total participated meetings"
share the same definition. The current metric is being gradually
phased out in favor of "Total participated meetings."
1:1 calls Call Count The number of 1:1 calls that the user participated in during the
specified time period.
Last activity Last Activity The last date that the user participated in a Microsoft Teams activity.
date (UTC) Date
Meetings Ad Hoc The number of unplanned meetings a user participated in during the
participated ad Meetings specified time period.
hoc Attended
Count
Meetings Ad Hoc The number of unplanned meetings a user organized during the
organized ad Meetings specified time period.
hoc Organized
Count NOTE: MeetNow meetings initiated from a chat are reflected in the
Teams user activity report as "Ad Hoc Meetings Organized." MeetNow
meetings initiated from Teams calendar are reflected in the Teams user
activity report as "Scheduled One-Time Meetings Organized."
Total organized Meetings The sum of one-time scheduled, recurring, improvised, and
meetings Organized unclassified meetings a user organized during the specified time
Count period.
Total Meetings The sum of the one-time scheduled, recurring, unplanned, and
participated Attended unclassified meetings a user participated in during the specified time
meetings Count period.
Meetings Scheduled The number of one-time scheduled meetings a user organized during
organized One-time the specified time period.
scheduled one- Meetings
time Organized NOTE: MeetNow meetings initiated from Teams calendar are reflected
Count in the Teams user activity report as "Scheduled One-Time Meetings
Organized." MeetNow meetings initiated from a chat are reflected in
the Teams user activity report as "Ad Hoc Meetings Organized."

--- Page 1475 of 2193 ---
Metric Mapped Definition
metric in
export
Meetings Scheduled The number of recurring meetings a user organized during the
organized Recurring specified time period.
scheduled Meetings
recurring Organized
Count
Meetings Scheduled The number of the one-time scheduled meetings a user participated in
participated One-time during the specified time period.
scheduled one- Meetings
time Attended
Count
Meetings Scheduled The number of the recurring meetings a user participated in during
participated Recurring the specified time period.
scheduled Meetings
recurring Attended
Count
Is licensed Is Licensed Selected if the user is licensed to use Teams.
Other activity Has Other The user is active but performed activities other than exposed action
Action types offered in the report. For example, sending or replying to
channel messages and chat messages, and scheduling or participating
in 1:1 calls and meetings. Examples actions are when a user changes
the Teams status or the Teams status message or opens a Channel
Message post but doesn't reply.
Audio Duration - Same definition as "Audio Duration (In Seconds)" and formatted by
ISO 8601 - Wikipedia
Video Duration - Same definition as "Video Duration (In Seconds)" and formatted by
ISO 8601 - Wikipedia
Screen Share - The sum of the screen share duration of a user used during the
Duration specified time period and formatted by ISO 8601 - Wikipedia
Audio Duration Audio Time Total time the user participated in meetings or calls where audio was
(In Seconds) (Min) enabled. Counts the entire meeting or call duration if the user sent or
received audio, not just time speaking or unmuted. Includes meetings
initiated via screen share from Chat (SSFC) when audio is enabled.
Applies to both senders and receivers; nonoptimized VDI clients might
show nonzero minutes without active audio use.
Video Duration Video Time Total time the user participated in meetings or calls where video was
(In Seconds) (Min) enabled. Counts the entire meeting or call duration if the user sent or
received video, not just time the camera was on. Includes SSFC
meetings when video is enabled. Applies to both senders and

--- Page 1476 of 2193 ---
Metric Mapped Definition
metric in
export
receivers; nonoptimized VDI clients might show nonzero minutes
without active video use.
Screen Share Screen Share The sum of the screen share duration of a user used during the
Duration In Time (Min) specified time period
Seconds
７ Note
By default, user-specific information like usernames, display names, groups, and sites is
hidden in usage reports. To learn how to display this information in usage reports, see Show
user, group, or site details in usage reports.
７ Note
Metric counts include Teams client built-in features, but don't include changes to chat
and channel through service integration, such as Teams app posts or replies and emails
in the channel.
Audio and video duration metrics represent participation time in meetings where audio
or video was enabled, not active speaking or camera-on time.
Related content
Microsoft Teams device usage report (article)
Microsoft Teams usage activity report (article)
） Note: The author created this article with assistance from AI. Learn more
Last updated on 05/21/2026

--- Page 1477 of 2193 ---
Microsoft 365 Reports in the admin center
- Microsoft 365 Apps usage
Summarize this article for me
The Microsoft 365 Reports dashboard shows you the activity overview across the products in
your organization. It enables you to drill in to individual product level reports to give you more
granular insight about the activities within each product. Check out the Reports overview
article.
For example, you can understand the activity of each user licensed to use Microsoft 365 Apps
apps by looking at their activity across the apps and how they are utilized across platforms.
７ Note
Shared computer activations are not included in this report.
How to get to the Microsoft 365 Apps usage report
1. In the admin center, go to the Reports > Usage page.
2. From the dashboard homepage, under Reports, select Microsoft 365 apps > Usage.
Interpret the Microsoft 365 Apps usage report
You can get a view into your user's Microsoft 365 Apps activity by looking at the Users and
Platform charts.

The Microsoft 365 Apps usage report can be viewed for trends over the last 7 days, 30 days,
90 days, or 180 days. However, if you select a particular day in the report, the table will show
data for up to 28 days from the current date (not the date the report was generated).
The data in each report usually covers up to the last two days. Every six days, we will refresh the
report with minor updates to ensure data quality.

--- Page 1478 of 2193 ---
The Users view shows the trend in the number of active users for each app – Outlook, Word,
Excel, PowerPoint, OneNote, and Teams. "Active users" are any who perform any intentional
actions within these apps.
The Platforms view shows the trend of active users across all apps for each platform –
Windows, Mac, Web, and Mobile.
On the Users chart, the Y-axis is the number of unique active users for the respective app. On
the Platforms chart, the Y-axis is the number of unique users for the respective platform. The X-
axis on both charts is the date on which an app was used on a given platform.
You can filter the series you see on the chart by selecting an item in the legend. For example,
on the Users chart, select Outlook, Word, Excel, PowerPoint, OneDrive, or Teams to see only the
info related to each one. Changing this selection doesn't change the info in the grid table
below it.
Outlook for Windows migration
The Outlook for Windows migration process view provides organizations with valuable
insights into the adoption of the new Outlook for Windows, as well as trends in migration from
the classic version to the new version.
All eligible licenses for Word, Excel, PowerPoint, and OneNote in this report include the
following:
OFFICE 365 BUSINESS
OFFICE SHARED COMPUTER ACTIVATION
OFFICE 365 PROPLUS FOR DEVICE
OFFICE 365 PROPLUS
OFFICE 365 PROPLUS PILOT
OFFICE 365 SMALL BUSINESS SUBSCRIPTION PREVIEW
OFFICE 365 PROPLUS PILOT
OFFICE 365 SMALL BUSINESS SUBSCRIPTION
OFFICE 365 PROPLUS G
MICROSOFT 365 APPS FOR ENTERPRISE (UNATTENDED) FOR GCC
MICROSOFT 365 APPS FOR ENTERPRISE (UNATTENDED)
MICROSOFT 365 APPS EXTENDED OFFLINE ACCESS
MICROSOFT 365 APPS EXTENDED OFFLINE ACCESS G
All eligible licenses for Outlook in this report extend to those that enable Outlook service
beyond the ones listed for Word, Excel, PowerPoint, and OneNote.

--- Page 1479 of 2193 ---
Per-user level data table
The table shows you a breakdown of data at the per-user level. You can add or remove
columns from the table.
ﾉ Expand table
Item Description
Username The email address of the user who performed the activity on Microsoft Apps.
Last activation date The latest date on which the user activated their Microsoft 365 Apps subscription
(UTC) on a machine or logs on shared computer and starts the app with their account.
Last activity date The latest date an intentional activity was performed by the user. To see activity
(UTC) that occurred on a specific date, select the date directly in the chart.
Activity in classic Indicates if the user was active in classic Outlook for Windows during the
Outlook specified time period.
Activity in new Indicates if the user was active in new Outlook for Windows during the specified
Outlook time period.
Activity on Windows Indicates if the user was active in Windows during the specified time period.
devices
Activity on Mac Indicates if the user was active in Mac during the specified time period.
devices
Activity on mobile Indicates if the user was active in mobile during the specified time period.
Activity on web Indicates if the user was active in web during the specified time period.
Activity on Outlook Indicates if the user was active on the Outlook app, including both new Outlook
app and classic Outlook, during the specified time period.
Activity on Word app Indicates if the user was active on the Word app during the specified time
period.
Activity on Excel app Indicates if the user was active on the Excel app during the specified time period.
Activity on Indicates if the user was active on the PowerPoint app during the specified time
PowerPoint app period.
Activity on OneNote Indicates if the user was active on the OneNote app during the specified time
app period.
Activity on Teams app Indicates if the user was active on the Teams app during the specified time
period.

--- Page 1480 of 2193 ---
Item Description
Activity on Outlook Indicates if the user was active on Outlook for Windows, including both new
for Windows Outlook for Windows and classic Outlook for Windows during the specified time
period.
Activity on Word for Indicates if the user was active on Word for Windows during the specified time
Windows period.
Activity on Excel for Indicates if the user was active on Excel for Windows during the specified time
Windows period.
Activity on Indicates if the user was active on PowerPoint for Windows during the specified
PowerPoint for time period.
Windows
Activity on OneNote Indicates if the user was active on OneNote for Windows during the specified
for Windows time period.
Activity on Teams for Indicates if the user was active on Teams for Windows during the specified time
Windows period.
Activity on Outlook Indicates if the user was active on Outlook for Mac during the specified time
for Mac period.
Activity on Word for Indicates if the user was active on Word for Mac during the specified time
Mac period.
Activity on Excel for Indicates if the user was active on Excel for Mac during the specified time period.
Mac
Activity on Indicates if the user was active on PowerPoint for Mac during the specified time
PowerPoint for Mac period.
Activity on OneNote Indicates if the user was active on OneNote for Mac during the specified time
for Mac period.
Activity on Teams for Indicates if the user was active on Teams for Mac during the specified time
Mac period.
Activity on Outlook Indicates if the user was active on Outlook for mobile during the specified time
(mobile) period.
Activity on Word Indicates if the user was active on Word for mobile during the specified time
(mobile) period.
Activity on Excel Indicates if the user was active on Excel for mobile during the specified time
(mobile) period.
Activity on Indicates if the user was active on PowerPoint for mobile during the specified
PowerPoint (mobile) time period.

--- Page 1481 of 2193 ---
Item Description
Activity on OneNote Indicates if the user was active on OneNote for mobile during the specified time
(mobile) period.
Activity on Teams Indicates if the user was active on Teams for mobile during the specified time
(mobile) period.
Activity on Outlook Indicates if the user was active on Outlook for web during the specified time
(web) period.
Activity on Word Indicates if the user was active on Word for web during the specified time
(web) period.
Activity on Excel (web) Indicates if the user was active on Excel for web during the specified time period.
Activity on Indicates if the user was active on PowerPoint for web during the specified time
PowerPoint (web) period.
Activity on OneNote Indicates if the user was active on OneNote for web during the specified time
(web) period.
Activity on Teams Indicates if the user was active on Teams for web during the specified time
(web) period.
７ Note
Outlook for Windows migration process view, and the columns 'Activity in classic
Outlook' and 'Activity in new Outlook' in table are only available in the Public
environment.
７ Note
New Outlook (Monarch) usage is monitored through the Microsoft 365 admin center and
not through Graph API.
The other columns identify if the user was active on that platform for that app (within Microsoft
365 Apps) in the period selected.
Select the Choose columns icon to add or remove columns from the report.
You can also export the report data into an Excel .csv file by selecting the Export link. This
exports data for all users and enables you to do simple aggregation, sorting, and filtering for
further analysis.

--- Page 1482 of 2193 ---
Last updated on 02/20/2026

--- Page 1483 of 2193 ---
Microsoft 365 Groups activity report
The Microsoft 365 Groups activity report provides insight into the activity of groups in your
organization. It includes details about how many groups are created and used.
For general information about usage reports in the Microsoft 365 admin center, and to see a list
of all available reports, see Microsoft 365 admin center usage reports overview.
View the Microsoft 365 Groups activity report
For information about the roles needed to view usage reports, see "Before you begin" in
Microsoft 365 admin center usage reports overview
1. Go to the Microsoft 365 admin center .
2. In the navigation menu, select Reports. If you don't see Reports, select Show all, and then
select Reports.
3. Select Usage .
4. On the Usage page, under Reports, select Microsoft 365 apps.
5. Select the Groups activity tab. If you don't see the tab, select the three dots, and then select
Groups activity.
Interpret the Microsoft 365 Groups activity report
The report displays trends over the last 7, 30, 90, or 180 days. However, if you select a particular
day in the report, the table shows data for up to 28 days from the current date, not the date the
report generated.

--- Page 1484 of 2193 ---

To add or remove columns from the report, select Choose columns.

--- Page 1485 of 2193 ---

To export the report data into an Excel .csv file, select Export. This action exports the usage data
of all users and enables you to do simple sorting, filtering, and searching for further analysis.
The following table contains definitions of the metrics available in the report.
ﾉ Expand table
Metric Definition
Group name The name of the group.

--- Page 1486 of 2193 ---
Metric Definition
Deleted The number of deleted groups. If the group is deleted, but had activity in the
reporting period it shows up in the grid with this flag set to true.
Group owner The name of the group owner.
Last activity date (UTC) This date shows the most recent activity in an email conversation, Viva Engage,
or the site.
Type The type of group. This type can be private or public group.
Emails received in The number of messages received by the group.
Exchange
Emails in Exchange (total) The total number of items in the group's mailbox.
Mailbox storage used for The storage used by the group's mailbox.
Exchange (MB)
SharePoint files (total) The number of files stored in SharePoint group sites.
SharePoint files (active) The number of files in the SharePoint group site that were acted on (viewed or
modified, synched, shared internally or externally) during the reporting period.
Total site storage used The amount of storage in MB used during the reporting period.
for SharePoint (MB)
Messages in Viva Engage The number of messages posted in the Viva Engage group over the reporting
(posted) period.
Messages in Viva Engage The number of conversations read in the Viva Engage group over the reporting
(read) period.
Messages in Viva Engage The number of messages liked in the Viva Engage group over the reporting
(liked) period.
Members The number of members in the group.
External members The number of external users in the group.
Total organized meetings The sum of one-time scheduled and recurring meetings a user organized during
the specified time period.
Channel messages The number of unique messages that a user posted in a team chat during the
specified time period. This number includes original posts and replies.
７ Note
By default, user-specific information like usernames, display names, groups, and sites is
hidden in usage reports. To learn how to display this information in usage reports, see Show

--- Page 1487 of 2193 ---
user, group, or site details in usage reports.
Related content
Microsoft 365 Reports in the admin center (article)
Microsoft 365 Reports in the admin center - Active Users (article)
） Note: The author created this article with assistance from AI. Learn more
Last updated on 05/19/2026

--- Page 1488 of 2193 ---
OneDrive activity report
The OneDrive activity report provides insight for every user licensed to use OneDrive by looking
at their interaction with files on OneDrive. It also helps you understand the level of collaboration
by looking at the number of files shared.
For general information about usage reports in the Microsoft 365 admin center, and to see a list
of all available reports, see Microsoft 365 admin center usage reports overview.
View the OneDrive activity report
For information about the roles needed to view usage reports, see "Before you begin" in
Microsoft 365 admin center usage reports overview
1. Go to the Microsoft 365 admin center .
2. In the navigation menu, select Reports. If you don't see Reports, select Show all, and then
select Reports.
3. Select Usage .
4. On the Usage page, under Reports, select OneDrive, and then select the Activity tab.
Interpret the OneDrive activity report
The report displays trends over the last 7, 30, 90, or 180 days. However, if you select a particular
day in the report, the table shows data for up to 28 days from the current date, not the date the
report generated.

--- Page 1489 of 2193 ---

To add or remove columns from the report, select Choose columns.


--- Page 1490 of 2193 ---
To export the report data into an Excel .csv file, select Export. This action exports the usage data
of all users and enables you to do simple sorting, filtering, and searching for further analysis.
The following table contains definitions of the metrics available in the report.
ﾉ Expand table
Metric Definition
Username The user name of the owner of the OneDrive account.
Last activity The most recent day file activity occurred on the OneDrive account for the selected date
date (UTC) range. To see activity that occurred on a specific date, select the date directly in the chart.
Files viewed The number of files that the user uploaded, downloaded, modified, or viewed.
or edited
Files synced The number of files synced between a user's local device to the OneDrive account.
Files shared The number of files shared with users within the organization, or with users within groups
internally (that might include external users).
Files shared The number of files shared with users outside of the organization.
externally
Deleted This metric indicates that the user's license was removed.
NOTE: Activity for a deleted user displays in a report as long as they were licensed at some
time during the selected time period. The Deleted column helps you to note that the user
might no longer be active, but contributed to the data in the report.
Deleted date The date when the user's license was removed.
Product The Microsoft 365 products that are licensed to the user.
assigned
７ Note
By default, user-specific information like usernames, display names, groups, and sites is
hidden in usage reports. To learn how to display this information in usage reports, see Show
user, group, or site details in usage reports.
） Note: The author created this article with assistance from AI. Learn more
Last updated on 05/19/2026

--- Page 1491 of 2193 ---
OneDrive usage report
The OneDrive usage report provides a high-level view of the value you get from OneDrive. The
report includes details about the total number of accounts, files, and storage used across your
organization. You can drill into it to understand the trends of active OneDrive accounts, how
many files users are interacting with, and the amount of storage used. It also gives you details for
each user's OneDrive.
） Important
The report only includes users who have a valid OneDrive license.
For general information about usage reports in the Microsoft 365 admin center, and to see a list
of all available reports, see Microsoft 365 admin center usage reports overview.
View the OneDrive usage report
For information about the roles needed to view usage reports, see "Before you begin" in
Microsoft 365 admin center usage reports overview
1. Go to the Microsoft 365 admin center .
2. In the navigation menu, select Reports. If you don't see Reports, select Show all, and then
select Reports.
3. Select Usage .
4. On the Usage page, under Reports, select OneDrive.
5. On the report page, select the Usage tab.
Interpret the OneDrive usage report
The OneDrive usage report displays trends over the last 7, 30, 90, or 180 days. However, if you
select a particular day in the report, the table shows data for up to 28 days from the current date
(not the date the report generated).

--- Page 1492 of 2193 ---

To add or remove columns from the report, select Choose columns.

To export the report data into an Excel .csv file, select Export. This action exports the usage data
of all users and enables you to do simple sorting, filtering, and searching for further analysis.
ﾉ Expand table

--- Page 1493 of 2193 ---
Metric Definition
URL The web address for the user's OneDrive. Note: URL is temporarily empty.
Deleted The deletion status of the OneDrive. It takes at least seven days for accounts to be marked
as deleted.
Owner The username of the primary administrator of the OneDrive.
Owner The email address of the owner of the OneDrive.
principal
name
Last activity The latest date a file activity was performed in the OneDrive. If the OneDrive has no file
date (UTC) activity, the value is blank.
Files The number of files in the OneDrive.
Active files The number of active files within the time period.
NOTE: If you remove files during the specified time period for the report, the number of
active files shown in the report might be larger than the current number of files in OneDrive.
Deleted users continue to appear in reports for 180 days.
Storage used The amount of storage the OneDrive uses in MB.
(MB)
Site ID The site ID of the site.
７ Note
By default, user-specific information like usernames, display names, groups, and sites is
hidden in usage reports. To learn how to display this information in usage reports, see Show
user, group, or site details in usage reports.
７ Note
The OneDrive site URL might not be displayed in related usage reports. You can use
PowerShell to display the site URL. For more information, see Use PowerShell to resolve site
URLs.
） Note: The author created this article with assistance from AI. Learn more
Last updated on 05/21/2026

--- Page 1494 of 2193 ---
Microsoft 365 Reports in the admin
center - Project activity
Article • 02/29/2024
The Microsoft 365 Reports dashboard shows you the activity overview across the
products in your organization. It enables you to drill in to individual product level
reports to give you more granular insight about the activities within each product. Check
out the Reports overview topic.
In the Project activity report, you can understand the activity of every user licensed to
use Microsoft Project by looking at their interaction with Project. It also helps you to
understand the level of collaboration going on by looking at the number of projects
visited and tasks created or edited.
How to get to the Project activity report
1. In the admin center, go to the Reports > Usage page.
2. From the dashboard homepage, select Project in the left navigation.
Interpret the Project activity report
You can use this report to see the activity and usage of Project in your environment. You
will see four summary charts in this report:
Active users - Shows you the daily active users on each day over time. Currently,
this includes only Project for the Web and Project Online desktop client.
Active users (by client) - Shows you the daily active users on each day over time,
broken out by client (Project for the Web vs. Project Online desktop client).
Project Activity - Shows you the number of daily sessions of Project over time, for
each client (Project for the Web and Project Online desktop client).

--- Page 1495 of 2193 ---
Task activity - Shows you the daily number of tasks created or edited over time in
Project for the Web
The report also has a table that shows activity for each project user in your environment.
Select Choose columns to add or remove columns from the table.
You can also export the report data into an Excel .csv file by selecting the Export link.
This exports data of all users and enables you to do simple sorting and filtering for
further analysis.
The Project activity report can be viewed for trends over the last 7 days, 30 days, 90
days, or 180 days. If you select a particular day in the report, the per user data table will
be updated accordingly to display users' usage on that day. However, this feature only
works for the most recent 28 days.
Privacy settings impact on the dashboard
If users or admins have their privacy settings set to Neither, we do not have accurate
metrics for the Project activity chart for the Project Online desktop client. The numbers
shown will be undercounted. For more information on privacy settings, see Use policy
settings to manage privacy controls for Microsoft 365 Apps for enterprise.

--- Page 1496 of 2193 ---
User activity table
The following are definitions for each metric in the user activity table.
ﾉ Expand table
Item Description
User name The user's principal name.
Display name The full name of the user.
Last activity The latest date the user in that row had activity in Project, including any of the
date activities in the summary reports.
Projects The number of projects opened by the user in the Project Online desktop client
visited during the time range selected in the top right of the page.
(Desktop)
Projects The number of projects visited by the user in Project for the Web during the time
visited (Web) range selected in the top right of the page.
Tasks created The number of tasks created by the user in Project for the Web during the time
(Web) range selected in the top right of the page.
Tasks edited The number of tasks edited by the user in Project for the Web during the time
(Web) range selected in the top right of the page.
Other This value is true if the user has performed an activity in Project Online desktop
client or in Project for the Web (that is not covered by the other columns) in the
time range selected in the top right of the page. If the user has not, this value is
false.
Feedback
Was this page helpful?  Yes  No
Provide product feedback

--- Page 1497 of 2193 ---
SharePoint activity report
The SharePoint activity report provides details about the activity of every licensed SharePoint user
by looking at their interaction with files. The report helps you understand the level of
collaboration by showing the number of files shared.
For general information about usage reports in the Microsoft 365 admin center, and to see a list
of all available reports, see Microsoft 365 admin center usage reports overview.
View the SharePoint activity report
For information about the roles needed to view usage reports, see "Before you begin" in
Microsoft 365 admin center usage reports overview
1. Go to the Microsoft 365 admin center .
2. In the navigation menu, select Reports. If you don't see Reports, select Show all, and then
select Reports.
3. Select Usage .
4. On the Usage page, under Reports, select SharePoint.
5. On the report page, select the Activity tab.
Interpret the SharePoint activity report
The report displays trends over the last 7, 30, 90, or 180 days. However, if you select a particular
day in the report, the table shows data for up to 28 days from the current date, not the date the
report was generated.

--- Page 1498 of 2193 ---

To add or remove columns from the report, select Choose columns.

To export the report data into an Excel .csv file, select Export. This action exports the usage data
of all users and enables you to do simple sorting, filtering, and searching for further analysis.

--- Page 1499 of 2193 ---
The following table contains definitions of the metrics available in the report.
ﾉ Expand table
Metric Definition
Username The email address of the user who performed the activity on the SharePoint Site.
Last activity The latest date a file activity was performed or a page was visited for the selected date
date (UTC) range. To see activity that occurred on a specific date, select the date directly in the chart.
Files viewed The number of files that the user uploaded, downloaded, modified, or viewed.
or edited
Files synced The number of files that are synced from a user's local device to the SharePoint site.
Files shared The count of files that are shared with users within the organization, or with users within
internally groups (that might include external users).
Files shared The number of files that are shared with users outside of the organization.
externally
Pages visited The visits to unique pages by the user.
Deleted This value indicates that the user's license was removed.
NOTE: Activity for a deleted user still displays in the report as long as the user was licensed
at some time during the selected time period. The Deleted column helps you to note that
the user might no longer be active, but contributed to the data in the report.
Deleted date The date when the user's license was removed.
Product The Microsoft 365 products that are licensed to the user.
assigned
７ Note
By default, user-specific information like usernames, display names, groups, and sites is
hidden in usage reports. To learn how to display this information in usage reports, see Show
user, group, or site details in usage reports.
） Note: The author created this article with assistance from AI. Learn more
Last updated on 05/19/2026

--- Page 1500 of 2193 ---
SharePoint site usage report
The SharePoint site usage report provides a high-level view of the value you get from SharePoint.
The report includes details about the total number of files that users store in SharePoint sites,
how many files are actively used, and the storage consumed across all these sites. You can drill
into the SharePoint site usage report to understand the trends and per-site level details for all
sites.
For general information about usage reports in the Microsoft 365 admin center, and to see a list
of all available reports, see Microsoft 365 admin center usage reports overview.
View the SharePoint site usage report
For information about the roles needed to view usage reports, see "Before you begin" in
Microsoft 365 admin center usage reports overview.
1. Go to the Microsoft 365 admin center .
2. In the navigation menu, select Reports. If you don't see Reports, select Show all, and then
select Reports.
3. Select Usage .
4. On the Usage page, under Reports, select SharePoint.
5. On the report page, select the Site usage tab.
Interpret the SharePoint site usage report
The SharePoint site usage report displays trends over the last 7, 30, 90, or 180 days. However, if
you select a particular day in the report, the table shows data for up to 28 days from the current
date (not the date the report was generated).

--- Page 1501 of 2193 ---

To add or remove columns from the report, select Choose columns.

--- Page 1502 of 2193 ---


--- Page 1503 of 2193 ---
To export the report data into an Excel .csv file, select Export. This action exports the usage data
of all users and enables you to do simple sorting, filtering, and searching for further analysis.
ﾉ Expand table
Metric Description
Site URL The full URL of the site.
Deleted The deletion status of the site. The site is marked as deleted after at least seven days.
Site owner The username of the primary owner of the site.
Site owner The email address of the owner of the site.
principal name
Last activity date
(UTC)
Site sensitivity The sensitivity label on the site.
label ID
External sharing The value of the external sharing setting for the site. This value doesn't reflect changes
to the effective setting made by site sensitivity labels. If you use sensitivity labels, use
the data access governance reports to get the correct values.
Unmanaged The site access policy for unmanaged devices.
device policy
Geo location The Geo location of the site.
Files The number of files on the site.
Active files The number of active files on the site. A file is active if it was saved, synced, modified, or
shared within the specified time period.
NOTE: If files were removed during the specified time period for the report, the number
of active files shown in the report might be larger than the current number of files on
the site.
Storage used The amount of storage currently used on the site.
(MB)
Storage allocated The maximum amount of storage allocated for the site.
(MB)
Page views The number of times pages were viewed on the site.
Pages visited The number of unique pages that were visited on the site.

--- Page 1504 of 2193 ---
Metric Description
Anonymous link The number of times documents or folders are shared using "Anyone with the link" on
count the site.
Company link The number of times documents or folders are shared using "People in org with the
count link" on the site.
Secure link for The number of times documents or folders are shared using "specific people" on the
guest count site.
Secure link for The number of times documents or folders are shared using "specific people" on the
member count site.
Root Web The template used for creating the site.
Template
NOTE: To filter the data by different site types, export the data and use the Root Web
Template column.
Site ID The site ID of the site.
７ Note
By default, user-specific information like usernames, display names, groups, and sites is
hidden in usage reports. To learn how to display this information in usage reports, see Show
user, group, or site details in usage reports.
７ Note
The SharePoint site URL doesn't display if Bring Your Own Key (BYOK) or Customer Lockbox
is enabled. If you meet the requirement, submit a request via ODSP Site URLs Displaying
Request . The site URL is visible within one week. If the requirement isn't met, you can use
PowerShell. To follow the steps, see Use PowerShell to resolve site URLs.
You might see differences between the sites listed in the Site usage report and the sites listed on
the Sites > Active sites page in the SharePoint admin center because certain site templates
and URLs aren't included as Active sites. For more information, see Manage sites in the
SharePoint admin center.
） Note: The author created this article with assistance from AI. Learn more
Last updated on 05/26/2026

--- Page 1505 of 2193 ---
Microsoft 365 Reports in the admin center -
SharePoint storage
The SharePoint storage report provides an overview of your tenant's storage usage. It also offers
suggestions for storage optimization and future proofing your organization's file growth capacity.
７ Note
This report is available to non-Education tenants. Education tenants should refer to their
pooled storage report. For more information about viewing the pooled storage report, see
Pooled storage management.
View SharePoint storage report
For information about what permissioms are needed to view the report, see Microsoft 365 admin
center usage reports overview: Before you begin.
To view the SharePoint storage report, perform the following steps:
1. In the Microsoft 365 admin center, go to Reports > Usage. The Usage page appears.

2. From the left navigation pane, select SharePoint.
3. Select the Storage tab.
７ Note

--- Page 1506 of 2193 ---
This report refreshes every 48-72 hours. Banner notifications appear when SharePoint usage
exceeds 80% of quota.
The SharePoint storage report contains the following sections:
Microsoft 365 Reports in the admin center - SharePoint storage
View SharePoint storage report
Optimize your organization's SharePoint storage
Total usage
Usage trend
Featured resources
Optimize your organization's SharePoint storage
Explore ways to manage your storage through setting file history limits, archiving inactive sites1,
and creating site lifecycle management policies1. To increase SharePoint storage capacity, buy
more storage in one-gigabyte increments. For more information about planning for SharePoint
storage, see SharePoint storage planning.
1 Additional licensing charges might apply.
Total usage
Review the total storage used by your tenant, total storage quota, and available storage quota.
For more information about SharePoint limits, see SharePoint limits - Service Descriptions.
Usage trend
Understand your tenant's storage growth trend and use the estimated future storage usage
based on past usage to make informed decisions on when to buy more storage or whether to
clean up usage.
７ Note
The historical trend represents usage across all sites and may slightly differ from the storage
bar, which indicates tenant-level quota consumption.
Featured resources

--- Page 1507 of 2193 ---
For more information about options for managing storage, see site storage limits and version
history limits. Consider using Microsoft Graph Data connect for more in-depth SharePoint
storage insights.
Last updated on 05/06/2026

--- Page 1508 of 2193 ---
Visio activity report
The Visio activity report provides insight into the activity of every Visio user in your organization.
For general information about usage reports in the Microsoft 365 admin center, and to see a list
of all available reports, see Microsoft 365 admin center usage reports overview.
View the Visio activity report
For information about the roles needed to view usage reports, see "Before you begin" in
Microsoft 365 admin center usage reports overview
1. Go to the Microsoft 365 admin center .
2. In the navigation menu, select Reports. If you don't see Reports, select Show all, and then
select Reports.
3. Select Usage .
4. On the Usage page, under Reports, select Visio.
Interpret the Visio activity report
The report displays trends over the last 7, 30, 90, or 180 days. If you select a particular day in the
report, the per-user data table updates to display users' usage for that day.
７ Note
The Visio report currently becomes available within 72 hours. Microsoft is working to reduce
the latency to 48 hours like other reports.


--- Page 1509 of 2193 ---
Active users Shows the daily active users on each day over time. This metric includes Visio
for the web and Visio desktop app usage.
Platforms Shows the daily active users on each day over time, broken down by platform:
Web and Desktop.
Platforms (total users) Shows the aggregated active users for the selected time window,
broken down by platform: Web and Desktop.
To export the report data into an Excel .csv file, select Export. This action exports the usage data
of all users and enables you to do simple sorting, filtering, and searching for further analysis.
Visio licensed usage
Use this report to filter for Visio licensed usage. Each of the charts includes a filter to select the
user segment.
All users Shows the usage for Visio licensed users, including Visio Plan 1 and Visio Plan 2,
and seeded usage, such as using Visio that comes as part of a Microsoft 365 commercial
subscription.
Visio licensed users Shows the usage for Visio licensed users only, including Visio Plan 1
and Visio Plan 2.

７ Note
Learn more about Visio seeded capabilities , and about Visio plans and pricing .
User details table

--- Page 1510 of 2193 ---
The report includes a table that shows the user details with active usage in your environment
during the selected time window.
The following table contains definitions of the metrics available in the report.
ﾉ Expand table
Metric Definition
User name The user principal name
Display name The full name of the user
Last activity The latest date the user in that row had activity in Visio, including any of the activities in
date the summary reports
Desktop This metric indicates whether that user used the Visio desktop app at least once during the
selected time window
Web This metric indicates whether that user used Visio for the web at least once during the
selected time window
７ Note
By default, user-specific information like usernames, display names, groups, and sites is
hidden in usage reports. To learn how to display this information in usage reports, see Show
user, group, or site details in usage reports.
） Note: The author created this article with assistance from AI. Learn more
Last updated on 05/19/2026

--- Page 1511 of 2193 ---
Viva Goals activity report
The Viva Goals report helps you understand the activity and usage of Viva Goals in your
organization. It also helps you understand the level of collaboration by showing the active usage
and the number of objectives and key results (OKRs) created.
For general information about usage reports in the Microsoft 365 admin center, and to see a list
of all available reports, see Microsoft 365 admin center usage reports overview.
View the Viva Goals activity report
For information about the roles needed to view usage reports, see "Before you begin" in
Microsoft 365 admin center usage reports overview
1. Go to the Microsoft 365 admin center .
2. In the navigation menu, select Reports. If you don't see Reports, select Show all, and then
select Reports.
3. Select Usage .
4. On the Usage page, under Reports, select Viva Goals.
Interpret the Viva Goals activity report
The report displays trends over the last 7, 30, 90, or 180 days. If you select a particular day in the
report, the per user data table updates to display users' usage on that day. However, this feature
only works for the most recent 28 days.

--- Page 1512 of 2193 ---

Active users shows the number of daily active users on each day over time. This count
includes Viva Goals on the web and Teams app usage.
Active self-service users shows the number of daily active users with self-service license
each day over time.
Active users by client type shows the number of daily active users on each day over time,
displayed by client type (Viva Goals for the Web, Viva Goals on Teams, Viva Goals on Azure
DevOps, and more).
User actions by activities shows the daily number of actions created or edited over time by
Viva Goals users. This count includes Viva Goals on all client types.
Active Viva Goals organizations shows the daily active organizations each day over time.
This count includes all the activities in a Viva Goals organization.
The report also has a table that shows activity for each Viva Goals user in your organization.
To add or remove columns from the report, select Choose columns.

--- Page 1514 of 2193 ---

To export the report data into an Excel .csv file, select Export. This action exports the usage data
of all users and enables you to do simple sorting, filtering, and searching for further analysis.
User activity table
The following table contains definitions of the metrics available in the report.
ﾉ Expand table
Metric Definition
User name The user's principal name.
Display name The full name of the user.
Last activity date The latest date the user in that row had activity in Viva Goals, including any of the
activities.
Is self-serve trial Indicates whether the user has a self-serve trial license.
Microsoft Teams Indicates whether the user uses the Viva Goals app on Microsoft Teams.
Slack Indicates whether the user uses the Viva Goals integration on Slack.
Azure DevOps Indicates whether the user uses the Viva Goals integration on Azure DevOps.
Web Indicates whether the user uses Viva Goals on web.

--- Page 1515 of 2193 ---
Metric Definition
Check-ins Number of check-ins done by the user on Viva Goals within the time range selected.
OKRs created Number of OKRs created by the user on Viva Goals within the time range selected.
Projects created Number of Projects created by the user on Viva Goals within the time range selected.
OKR engagement Number of reactions on the OKRs by the user on Viva Goals within the time range
selected.
Dashboards Number of Dashboards created by the user on Viva Goals within the time range
created selected.
７ Note
By default, user-specific information like usernames, display names, groups, and sites is
hidden in usage reports. To learn how to display this information in usage reports, see Show
user, group, or site details in usage reports.
） Note: The author created this article with assistance from AI. Learn more
Last updated on 05/19/2026

--- Page 1516 of 2193 ---
Microsoft 365 Reports in the admin center
- Viva Insights activity
As a Microsoft 365 admin, the Reports dashboard shows you the activity overview across
various products in your organization. It enables you to drill in to get more granular insight
about the activities specific to each product. Check out the activity reports in the Microsoft 365
admin center.
For example, you can understand the adoption of Viva Insights by looking at the active users.
Additionally, you can find a deployment guide to further boost adoption in your organization.
How do I get to the Viva Insights activity report?
1. In the admin center, go to the Reports, select Usage, and then select Overview.
2. Find Viva Insights activity.
Interpret the Microsoft 365 Apps usage report
You can get a view into your user's Viva Insights activity by looking at the Active users chart.
The Viva Insights active user chart can be viewed for trends over the last 7 days, 30 days, 90
days, or 180 days.

--- Page 1517 of 2193 ---
Active users are users that have engaged with at least one Viva Insights feature that day. This
includes dwelling for more than 20 seconds on any Viva Insight email, clicking or taking an
action on any Insights surfacing, or visiting the Viva Insights app in Teams, Outlook add-in, or
web dashboards.
View the Viva Insights deployment guide
You can click Boost adoption of Viva Insights to view the Viva Insights Deployment guide.
Last updated on 12/18/2025

--- Page 1518 of 2193 ---
Microsoft 365 Reports in the admin
center - Viva Learning activity
Article • 03/01/2024
As a Microsoft 365 admin, the Reports dashboard shows you the activity overview across
various products in your organization. It enables you to drill in to get more granular
insight about the activities specific to each product. Check out the activity reports in the
Microsoft 365 admin center.
For example, you can understand the activity of your licensed Viva Learning users by
looking at their interactions. It also helps you to understand the type of features being
used within the Learning App.
How do I get to the Viva Learning activity
report?
1. In the admin center, go to the Reports > Usage page.
2. From the dashboard homepage, select Viva Learning in the left navigation.
Interpret the Microsoft 365 Apps usage report
You can get a view into your user's Viva Learning activity by looking at the Active users
and User activities charts.
Active users – Shows you the number of active users over time. For example, you
can use it to find the number of active users in your organization on a specific day
over the past 30 days.
User activities – Shows you the number of user activities, such as viewed featured
content, learning tabs pinned, viewed learning objects, consumed learning objects,
recommendations made, and bookmarks.

--- Page 1519 of 2193 ---
Feedback
Was this page helpful?  Yes  No
Provide product feedback

--- Page 1520 of 2193 ---
Microsoft 365 Reports in the admin center -
Viva Engage activity report
As Microsoft 365 admin, the Reports dashboard shows you data on the usage of the products
within your organization. Check out activity reports in the admin center. With the Viva Engage
Activity report, you can understand the level of engagement of your organization with Viva
Engage by looking at the number of unique users using Viva Engage to post, like or read a
message and the amount of activity generated across the organization.
How do I get to the Viva Engage activity report?
1. In the admin center, go to the Reports, and then select Usage.
2. From the dashboard homepage, select Viva Engage in the left navigation.
Interpret the Viva Engage activity report
You can view the activities in the Viva Engage report by choosing the Activity tab.
Select Choose columns to add or remove columns from the report.

--- Page 1521 of 2193 ---
You can also export the report data into an Excel .csv file by selecting the Export link. This exports
data of all users and enables you to do simple sorting and filtering for further analysis.
The Viva Engage activity report can be viewed for trends over the last 7 days, 30 days, 90 days,
or 180 days. However, if you select a particular day in the report, the table will show data for up
to 28 days from the current date (not the date the report was generated).
ﾉ Expand table
Metric Definition
Username The email address of the user. You can display the actual email address or make this field
anonymous. This grid shows users who logged into Viva Engage using the Microsoft 365
account or who logged into the network using single sign-on.
Display name The full name of the user. You can display the actual email address or make this field
anonymous.
User state One of three values: Activated, Deleted, or Suspended. These reports show data for active,
suspended, and deleted users. They do not reflect pending users, because pending users
cannot post, read, or like a message.

--- Page 1522 of 2193 ---
Metric Definition
State change The date on which the user's state was changed in Viva Engage.
date (UTC)
Last activity The last date that the user posted, read, or liked a message.
date (UTC)
Posted The number of messages the user posted during the time period you specified.
Read The number of conversations that the user read during the time period you specified.
Liked The number of messages that the user liked during the time period you specified.
Product The products that are assigned to this user.
assigned
Last updated on 03/01/2024

--- Page 1523 of 2193 ---
Microsoft 365 Reports in the admin center
- Viva Engage device usage report
03/01/2024
The Microsoft 365 Reports dashboard shows you the activity overview across the products in
your organization. It enables you to drill in to individual product level reports to give you more
granular insight about the activities within each product. Check out the Reports overview topic.
The Viva Engage device usage reports give you information about which devices your users are
using Viva Engage on. You can view the number of daily users by device type, and number of
users by device type. You can view both over a selected time period. You can also view details
per user.
How do I get to the Viva Engage device usage
report?
1. In the admin center, go to the Reports, and then select Usage.
2. From the dashboard homepage, select Viva Engage in the left navigation, then select
Device usage.
Interpret the Viva Engage device usage report
Select the Device usage tab to view the usage in the OneDrive report.
Select Choose columns to add or remove columns from the report.

--- Page 1524 of 2193 ---
You also can export the report data into an Excel .csv file by selecting the Export link. This link
exports data of all users and enables you to do simple sorting and filtering for further analysis.
The Viva Engage device usage report can be viewed for trends over the last 7 days, 30 days, 90
days, or 180 days. However, if you select a particular day in the report, the table will show data
for up to 28 days from the current date (not the date the report was generated).
ﾉ Expand table
Metric Definition
Username The email address of the user. You can display the actual email address or make this field
anonymous. This grid shows users who logged in to Viva Engage using the Microsoft
365 account or who logged in to the network using single sign-on.
Display name The full name of the user. You can display the actual email address or make this field
anonymous.

--- Page 1525 of 2193 ---
Metric Definition
User state One of three values: Active, Deleted, or Suspended. These reports show data for active,
suspended, and deleted users. They don't reflect pending users, because pending users
can't post, read, or like a message.
State change The date on which the user's state was changed in Viva Engage.
date (UTC)
Last activity The last date (UTC) that the user participated in a Viva Engage activity.
date (UTC)
Web Indicates if the user has used Viva Engage on the web.
Windows Indicates if the user has used Viva Engage on a Windows phone.
phone
Android Indicates if the user has used Viva Engage on an Android phone.
phone
iPhone Indicates if the user has used Viva Engage on an iPhone.
iPad Indicates if the user has used Viva Engage on an iPad.
other Indicates if the user has used Viva Engage on another client, which wasn't listed
previously. This includes Viva Engage Embed, SharePoint Web Part, Viva Engage, and
select Outlook emails.

--- Page 1526 of 2193 ---
Viva Engage groups activity report
The Viva Engage groups activity report provides insights into the activity of Viva Engage groups
in your organization. You can also see how many Viva Engage groups are created and used.
For general information about usage reports in the Microsoft 365 admin center, and to see a list
of all available reports, see Microsoft 365 admin center usage reports overview.
View the Viva Engage groups activity report
For information about the roles needed to view usage reports, see "Before you begin" in
Microsoft 365 admin center usage reports overview
1. Go to the Microsoft 365 admin center .
2. In the navigation menu, select Reports. If you don't see Reports, select Show all, and then
select Reports.
3. Select Usage .
4. On the Usage page, under Reports, select Viva Engage, and then select the Groups activity
tab.
Interpret the Viva Engage groups activity report
The report displays trends over the last 7, 30, 90, or 180 days. However, if you select a particular
day in the report, the table shows data for up to 28 days from the current date, not the date the
report generated.

--- Page 1527 of 2193 ---

To add or remove columns from the report, select Choose columns.


--- Page 1528 of 2193 ---
To export the report data into an Excel .csv file, select Export. This action exports the usage data
of all users and enables you to do simple sorting, filtering, and searching for further analysis.
The following table contains definitions of the metrics available in the report.
ﾉ Expand table
Metric Definition
Group name The name of the group.
Group admin The name of the group administrator, or owner.
Deleted The number of deleted Viva Engage groups. If the group is deleted, but had activity in
the reporting period it shows up in the grid with this flag set to true.
Type The type of group, public or private.
Connected to Indicates whether the Viva Engage group is also a Microsoft 365 Group.
Office 365
Last activity date The latest date the group read, posted, or liked a message.
(UTC)
Members The number of members in the group.
Posted The number of messages posted in the Viva Engage group over the reporting period.
Read The number of conversations read in the Viva Engage group over the reporting period.
Liked The number of messages liked in the Viva Engage group over the reporting period.
Network name The full name of the network that the group belongs to.
７ Note
By default, user-specific information like usernames, display names, groups, and sites is
hidden in usage reports. To learn how to display this information in usage reports, see Show
user, group, or site details in usage reports.
） Note: The author created this article with assistance from AI. Learn more
Last updated on 05/19/2026

--- Page 1529 of 2193 ---
Microsoft Adoption Score
Summarize this article for me
７ Note
Technology experiences retirement (January 2026) Starting January 22, 2026, the Microsoft
365 admin center will retire the Technology experiences score and its three categories,
Network connectivity, Microsoft 365 Apps health, and Endpoint analytics from the
Adoption Score report. This change rolls out and completes in February 2026.
After this change, the overall Adoption Score is equal to the People experiences score.
The People experiences score measures end user progress toward embedding Microsoft
365 and Copilot into day-to-day productivity workflows.
As part of this change, the maximum possible Adoption Score changes from 900 to 600.
Admins and report readers who regularly use the Adoption Score see a change to the
total score value when the update reaches their tenant. End users aren't impacted by this
change.
The Adoption Score supports the journey to digital transformation with insights into how your
organization uses Microsoft 365. You can compare your organization's score to baselines from
organizations similar in size to yours.
The Adoption Score provides:
Metrics to help you see where you are on your digital transformation journey.
Insights about the data to help you identify opportunities to improve productivity and
satisfaction in your organization.
Recommended actions you can take to help your organization use Microsoft 365
products efficiently.
Categories: Quantifies how the organization works using Microsoft 365 categories like
content collaboration, mobility, communication, meetings, teamwork, and AI adoption.
For each of the mentioned categories, we look at public research to identify some best
practices and associated benefits in the form of organizational effectiveness. For example,
Forrester research has shown that when people collaborate and share content in the
cloud (instead of emailing attachments), they can save up to 100 minutes a week.
Furthermore, we quantify the use of these best practices in your organization to help you
see where you are on your digital transformation journey.

--- Page 1530 of 2193 ---
To understand more about options to configure for your organization, see privacy
controls for Adoption Score.
７ Note
All insights are calculated using data at the organizational level, not the individual level.
Adoption Score prerequisites
You must have a Microsoft 365 for business or Office 365 for enterprise subscription.
７ Note
You don't need a license to Viva Insights to use the Adoption Score features.
The Adoption Score report is only available in the Microsoft 365 admin center. You can access
the report only if you have one of the following roles:
Global Administrator
Exchange Administrator
SharePoint Administrator
Skype for Business Administrator
Teams Service Administrator
Teams Communications Administrator
Global Reader
Reports Reader
AI Report Reader
Usage Summary Reports Reader
User Experience Success Manager
Organizational Messages Writer Role
Ｕ Caution
Global Administrators have almost unlimited access to your organization's settings and
most of its data. To help keep your organization secure, we recommend that you limit the
number of Global Administrators as much as possible.
The role-based access control model for Adoption Score helps organizations further digital
transformation efforts with Microsoft 365 by providing the flexibility to assign roles to IT
professionals within an organization.

--- Page 1531 of 2193 ---
Microsoft is committed to protecting individual privacy. Privacy controls for Adoption Score
explains the controls we provide you, as your organization's IT administrator, to ensure that the
information is actionable while not compromising the trust you place in Microsoft.
You can access the experience from the Microsoft 365 admin center under Reports > Adoption
Score.
７ Note
This feature isn't available in GCC High, GCC, and DOD tenants.
How the score is calculated
Your Adoption Score is based on the combined scores of five categories (six categories if you
enabled Copilot licenses). Each category is weighted equally, with a total of 100 points. The
highest possible Adoption Score is 600.
Score categories
Communication (100 points)
Meetings (100 points)
Content collaboration (100 points)
Teamwork (100 points)
Mobility (100 points)
AI Adoption (100 points) if Microsoft 365 Copilot licenses are enabled
Total possible = 600 points
In each score category, the key indicators show how your organization is using Microsoft 365
in its journey towards digital transformation. You can see 28-day and 180-day views of the key
activities. The report also provides supporting metrics that aren't part of the score calculation
but are important for helping you identify underlying usage statistics and configurations that
you can address.
The Adoption Score includes data from Exchange, SharePoint, OneDrive, Teams, Word, Excel,
PowerPoint, OneNote, Outlook, Viva Engage, and Skype.
Your organization's score is updated daily and reflects user actions completed in the last 28
days (including the current day).
Interpreting your organization's Adoption Score

--- Page 1532 of 2193 ---
The Adoption Score home page shows your organization's total score and score history. It also
shows the primary insight for each category.

７ Note
Adoption Score sub-scores are computed on different schedules. Your score may update
over the first few days as all sub-scores become available. This is expected behavior. All
sub-scores typically arrive within 3 days, but occasional delays of 4–5 days may occur. If a
sub-score is delayed beyond 7 days, you will receive a notification in the Service Health
Dashboard in the Microsoft 365 admin center.
Your organization's score appears as a percent value and in points. You can see your points in
the numerator and the maximum possible points in the denominator.
Peer benchmarks show you how your organization's score compares with organizations like
yours. The peer benchmark is calculated as the average of measures within a set of similar
organizations. The set of organizations is composed of organizations in your region with a
similar number of licensed users, types of licenses, industry, and tenure with Microsoft 365.
７ Note

--- Page 1533 of 2193 ---
Microsoft uses internal data to determine the industry that an organization maps to.
Tenants under a parent organization map to the same industry as the parent organization.
Organizations can't view or modify industry mappings.
Category details pages
Each category details page shows the primary insight and supporting metrics. It also shows
related research and actions you can take to drive change in your organization. Research
supports the importance and rationale behind the primary insights for each category. For more
information, read the Forrester report .
The details pages are:
Content collaboration
Communication
Meetings
Mobility
Teamwork
AI adoption
Group level aggregates
The group-level filters help admins and adoption strategists understand how different groups,
based on data from Microsoft Entra ID, are performing. Use the filters to provide higher
granularity of insights and actions.
Learn more about Group Level Aggregates.
Adoption Score organizational messages
Organizational Messages is a new feature added to Adoption Score that increases the
actionability of admins to reach employees and drive adoption awareness. For example, to
improve the content collaboration score, admins can send notifications to encourage
employees who weren't actively using cloud attachments before to use the feature when
they're about to attach a physical attachment in Outlook. Currently, admins can send messages
to drive the adoption scenarios for OneDrive SharePoint, Teams Chat, using @mention in
Outlook, and cloud attachments in Outlook.
Learn more about Adoption Score Organizational Messages.

--- Page 1534 of 2193 ---
Provide feedback on Adoption Score
Share your thoughts about Adoption Score and your ideas about how to improve it. Use the
Feedback sections within the product and reach out to the Adoption Score team at
adoptscorefeedback@microsoft.com.
Related content
Monitor Microsoft 365 activity by using reports (article)
Enable Microsoft 365 usage analytics (article)
Overview of the Microsoft 365 admin center (video)
Last updated on 03/11/2026

--- Page 1535 of 2193 ---
Content collaboration
Adoption Score provides insights into your organization's digital transformation journey
through its use of Microsoft 365 and the technology experiences that support it. Your
organization's score reflects technology experience measurements and can be compared to
benchmarks from organizations similar to yours. To learn more, check out the Adoption Score
overview and read Microsoft's Privacy Statement .
Prerequisites
To get started with Content collaboration insights, people in your organization need to be
licensed for:
OneDrive
SharePoint
Exchange Online
For more information, see assign licenses to users.
After people have been active in the above products at least once in the last 28 days, you will
start to see the insights.
Why your organization's content collaboration
score matters
A key aspect of digital transformation is how people collaborate in files. With your content on
Microsoft 365, people access, create, modify, and collaborate on content with other people
from any location. Research shows that when people collaborate with online files, each person
saves an average of 100 minutes per week.
How we calculate the content collaboration score
We provide a primary insight that contains the key metrics for content collaboration in your
organization. Then, a scoring framework detailed below is used for these metrics to calculate
your organization's score.
７ Note
On April 22, 2021, we changed how the collaborators metric is calculated. This affects the
primary insight, the file collaboration insight, and the way the content collaboration

--- Page 1536 of 2193 ---
score is measured. This change helps reduce noise in the data from non-human agents (or
bots) from Microsoft and other third-party applications, resulting in a more accurate and
actionable score.
Primary insight
Microsoft OneDrive and SharePoint help people to easily create, read, and discover their
individual and shared content in Microsoft 365 from across devices and applications. They also
allow people to securely share and collaborate on content. The primary insight contains
information from everyone who can use OneDrive and SharePoint. Additionally it breaks down
the details about how many people read, create, and collaborate on content stored in
OneDrive and SharePoint.
Types considered for this information include Word, Excel, PowerPoint, OneNote, and PDF files.
1. Header: Shows the percentage of people in your org who have access to OneDrive or
SharePoint who are collaborating on content.
2. Body: Provides more information on how the behaviors of reading and creating files
online are linked to collaborating on files.
3. Visualization (current state):
Horizontal bars where the blue-colored portions represent the percentage of people
enabled for file collaboration through OneDrive or SharePoint who have been
readers, creators, or collaborators on online files in the last 28 days.
They're defined as follows:
Readers: People who access or download online files in OneDrive or SharePoint.
Creators: People who create, modify, upload, sync, check in, copy, or move online

--- Page 1537 of 2193 ---
OneDrive or SharePoint files.
Collaborators: People who collaborate with online files by using OneDrive or
SharePoint. Two people are collaborators if one of them reads or edits an online
Microsoft 365 app or PDF after the other person has created or modified it, within a
28-day window.
７ Note
The files considered in the visualization are Word, Excel, PowerPoint, OneNote,
or PDF files that are online and saved to OneDrive or SharePoint.
Highlight (numerator/denominator) of the fraction is used to calculate the
percentage expressed in each of the horizontal bars.
Readers:
Numerator: Number of people who access or download online files in
OneDrive or SharePoint in the last 28 days
Denominator: Number of people who had access to OneDrive or SharePoint
for at least 1 of the last 28 days
Creators:
Numerator: Number of people who create, modify, upload, sync, check in,
copy, or move online files in OneDrive or SharePoint in the last 28 days
Denominator: Number of people who have had access to OneDrive or
SharePoint for at least 1 of the last 28 days.
Collaborators:
Numerator: Number of people who have collaborated on online files in
OneDrive or SharePoint in the last 28 days
Denominator: Number of people who have had access to for OneDrive or
SharePoint for at least 1 of the last 28 days
Peer benchmark value for each of readers, creators, and collaborators is also shown
as a percentage. In other words, the value of the number of creators is shown as a
percentage of the number of people who have access to OneDrive or SharePoint.
4. Link to resources: Select this link to view collated videos, and other related help content.
Trend visualization of primary insight
The trend visualizations chart shows the trend-line of the primary insight key metrics for
readers, creators, and collaborators, over the last 180 days. Each data point on the chart is an
aggregate of activity for the last 28 days. Each creator data-point provides a count of all people
who were tagged as creators within the last 28 days for each date on the x axis.

--- Page 1538 of 2193 ---
Scoring framework
The content collaboration score for your organization measures at an aggregate (organization)
level whether people are consistently reading, creating, or collaborating on online Microsoft
365 files such as Word, Excel, PowerPoint, OneNote, or PDFs, or in OneDrive or SharePoint.
Scores are not provided at the individual user level.
Explore how your organization collaborates
We also provide you with information that helps you gain visibility into how your organization
collaborates on content. These additional metrics don't directly contribute to your Adoption
Score but help you create an action plan as part of your digital transformation to help optimize
the way people work.
Creating files in OneDrive or SharePoint

--- Page 1539 of 2193 ---
1. Header: Highlights the percentage of people active on apps in Microsoft 365 who create
files on OneDrive or SharePoint.
2. Body: Provides information about the value of content creation in OneDrive and
SharePoint.
3. Visualization: The breakdown in the visualization represents the extent to which people
who are using apps in Microsoft 365 to create files in OneDrive and SharePoint, as
follows:
OneDrive: The blue (colored) portion of the bar and the fraction on the bar
represent the percentage of people active on apps in Microsoft 365 creating content
on OneDrive as follows:
Numerator: The number of people who create, modify, upload, sync, check in,
copy, or move online Microsoft 365 files in OneDrive within the last 28 days.
Denominator: The number of people who have access to OneDrive or SharePoint
and access office files within the last 28 days.
SharePoint: The blue (colored) portion of the bar and the fraction on the bar
represent the percentage of people who are active in apps in Microsoft 365 and
create content on SharePoint as:
Numerator: The number of people who create, modify, upload, sync, check in,
copy, or move online Microsoft 365 files (Microsoft Word, Excel, PowerPoint, or
OneNote files) on SharePoint within the last 28 days.

--- Page 1540 of 2193 ---
Denominator: The number of people who have access to OneDrive or SharePoint
and have accessed Microsoft 365 files within the last 28 days.
4. Link to resources: Select this link to view help content.
Use of attachments in email
Use of attachments in email Understand how many users are attaching physical files in email
rather than links to content in the cloud, and monitor the reduction of this number over time.
1. Header: Highlights the percentage of people who use attachments in emails that were
not saved to online files.
2. Body: Provides information about the value of sharing links to online files from a
collaboration and security perspective.
3. Visualization: The breakdown in the visualization is meant to represent the extent to
which people who are attaching content in emails are using different modes (files not
saved to online files, links to online files):
Attach files: The blue (colored) portion of the bar and the fraction
(numerator/denominator) on the bar represents the percentage of people using
attachments in emails.

--- Page 1541 of 2193 ---
Numerator: The number of people who attach files to email that weren't saved to
online file within the last 28 days.
Denominator: The number of people who have had access to Exchange and
OneDrive, SharePoint, or both, and sent at least one attachment within the last 28
days.
Links to online files: The blue (colored) portion of the bar and the fraction
(numerator/denominator) on the bar represent the percentage of people using
attachments and attaching links to files in emails.
Numerator: The number of people attaching links to online files to emails within
the last 28 days.
Denominator: The number of people who have had access to Exchange and
OneDrive, SharePoint, or both, and sent at least one attachment within the last 28
days.
4. Link to resources: Select this link to view help content.
Sharing of online files
1. Header: Highlights the percentage of people who have access to for OneDrive or
SharePoint who are sharing files externally.
2. Body: Provides information about the admins' ability to change the file- sharing settings
in the organization to enable the level of collaboration best suited to your organization.
3. Visualization: Represents the extent to which people who have access to OneDrive or
SharePoint are sharing files internally or externally:

--- Page 1542 of 2193 ---
Externally: The blue (colored) portion of the bar and the fraction
(numerator/denominator) on the bar represent the percentage of people who have
access to OneDrive or SharePoint and are sharing files externally.
Numerator: The number of people who have shared files externally within the last
28 days.
Denominator: The total number of people who have had access to OneDrive or
SharePoint for at least 1 of the last 28 days.
Internally only: The blue (colored) portion of the bar and the fraction
(numerator/denominator) on the bar represent the percentage of people who have
access to OneDrive or SharePoint and are sharing files internally only.
Numerator: The number of people who have shared files internally only within
the last 28 days.
Denominator: The number of people who have had access to Exchange and
OneDrive, SharePoint, or both, and sent at least one attachment within the last 28
days.
4. Link to resources: Select this link to view help content.
Number of files collaborated on

--- Page 1543 of 2193 ---
1. Header: Highlights the percentage of people who have access to OneDrive or SharePoint
who are collaborating on 4 or more files.
2. Body: Provides information about how people can leverage online files for better
collaboration.
3. Visualization: Shows a distribution of the people who have access to OneDrive or
SharePoint, based on the number of files they collaborate on. This is shown through the
following 4 categories (for each, the blue portion of the bar and the fraction represent the
percentage of people who have access to OneDrive or SharePoint that fall into that
category):
No collaboration:
Numerator: Number of people not collaborating on any files in the last 28 days.
Denominator: Total number of people who have access to OneDrive or
SharePoint for at least 1 of the last 28 days.
Collaboration on 1-3 files:
Numerator: Number of people collaborating on 1-3 files in the last 28 days.
Denominator: Total number of people who have had access to OneDrive or
SharePoint for at least 1 of the last 28 days.
Collaboration on 4-10 files:
Numerator: Number of people collaborating on 4-10 files in the last 28 days.
Denominator: Total number of people who have had access to OneDrive or
SharePoint for at least 1 of the last 28 days.
Collaboration on 11 or more files:
Numerator: Number of people collaborating on 11 or more files in the last 28
days.
Denominator: Total number of people who have had access to OneDrive or
SharePoint for at least 1 of the last 28 days.
4. Link to resources: Select this link to view help content.
Network performance strength for OneDrive and SharePoint

--- Page 1544 of 2193 ---
1. Header: Highlights the percentage of devices out of all tested that has poor network
connection to OneDrive and SharePoint.
2. Body: Provides information about why network connection performance important for
collaboration.
3. Visualization: Shows a percentage of devices with different levels of network connectivity
performance related to OneDrive and SharePoint:
81-100 (best): The dark green (colored) portion of the bar represents the percentage
of devices with the best performance.
61-80: The green (colored) portion of the bar represents the percentage of devices
with a network performance score between 60-80.
41-60: The orange (colored) portion of the bar represents the percentage of devices
with a network performance score between 40-60.
21-40: The red (colored) portion of the bar represents the percentage of devices
with a network performance score between 20-40.
0-20: The dark red (colored) portion of the bar represents the percentage of devices
with the worst network performance score between 0-20.

--- Page 1545 of 2193 ---
View content collaboration trends over time
For each of the insights above, you can see how the metrics trend over time by selecting an
option from the dropdown shown below:
After you select an option, the charts in the report will update to show a trend over time rather
than a snapshot of the past month.
Related content
Microsoft 365 apps health – Technology experiences (article)
Communication – People experiences (article)
Meetings – People experiences (article)
Mobility – People experiences (article)
Privacy controls for Adoption Score (article)
Teamwork – People experiences (article)
Last updated on 01/23/2026

--- Page 1546 of 2193 ---
Communication insights score
Adoption Score supports the journey to digital transformation with insights about how your
organization uses Microsoft 365 and the technology experiences that support it. Your
organization’s score reflects technology experience measurements and can be compared to
benchmarks from organizations similar in size to yours. To learn more, check out the Adoption
Score overview and read Microsoft's Privacy Statement .
Prerequisites
To get started with Communication insights, people in your organization need to be licensed
for:
Microsoft Teams
Viva Engage
Exchange Online
For more information, see assign licenses to users.
After people have been active in the above products at least once in the last 28 days, you will
start to see the insights.
Why your organization’s Communication score
matters
Microsoft understands that people have different communication needs. To get a quick
response to a question, you might choose to send an instant message. If you want to send
status updates to your leadership, you may choose an email message. To reach a broader
audience, you may choose to post a community message. Microsoft 365 enables this flexibility
in communication modes to fit everyone's needs. Research shows that using real-time
communication tools creates a more unified organization and builds morale, regardless of
location.
How we calculate the communication score
For Communication, we provide a primary insight, which contains the key metrics associated
with communication in your organization, combined with a scoring framework for using these
metrics to calculate your organization's score.
Primary insight

--- Page 1547 of 2193 ---
Microsoft 365 provides people the flexibility to fit everyone's communication style by offering
multiple modes. The primary insight provides a measure of people in your org that are using
multiple modes to communicate.
1. Header: Provides the key metric of people using more than one communication mode,
namely:
Sending emails through Exchange
Sending messages through Teams
Posting on communities in Viva Engage
This key metric is shown as a percentage of all people who are using two or more of
Exchange, Teams, or Viva Engage.
2. Body: Provides more information on how flexibility in the modes of communication is
valuable to people in your org.
3. Visualization of current state:
Horizontal bar where the blue portion represents the percentage expressed in the
header
Highlights the (numerator/denominator) used for computing the percentage
expressed in the header:
Numerator: # of people using more than one communication mode in the last 28
days
Denominator: # of people marked as enabled for more than one communication
product in the last 28 days
Peer Benchmark value of the key metric is also shown as a percentage
4. View communication resources: Clicking here would enlist all the support content in the
form of videos/articles related to Communication. From these you can navigate to the
custom playlist for Communication and subsequently, for all Adoption Score categories.

--- Page 1548 of 2193 ---
Trend visualization of primary insight
This chart provides the trend of numerator of the key metric in the primary insight – that is, the
number of people in your org using more than one communication mode over the last 180
days. Here that the daily value is an aggregate of the number of people who use multiple
forms of communication over the last 28 days.
Scoring model
The communication score for your organization measures at an aggregate (organization) level
whether people are consistently communicating using multiple modes among email, chat, and
community posts over a 28-day window.
Scores are not provided at the individual user level.
Explore how your organization communicates
We also provide you with information that helps you gain visibility into how your organization
communicates. These additional metrics don't directly influence your Adoption Score, but can
help you create an action plan as a part of your digital transformation.
Breakdown of communication by modes

--- Page 1549 of 2193 ---
1. Header: Highlights the goal of the insight to provide a detailed breakdown across the
different communication modes being considered within Communication.
2. Body: Provides information on the value of using different modes for sharing knowledge.
3. Visualization: The breakdown represents the use for each mode. The colored portion and
the fraction on each bar represent the number of people sending emails,messages, or
community posts as a percentage of number of people enabled for that mode:
People sending emails: The colored portion and the fraction represent the
percentage of users enabled for Exchange who are sending emails. This fraction is
constructed from:
Numerator: People sending emails in the last 28 days.
Denominator: People enabled for Exchange in the last 28 days.
People sending messages in Microsoft Teams: The colored portion and the fraction
represent the percentage of users enabled for Microsoft Teams who are sending
messages. This fraction is constructed from:
Numerator: People sending messages on Microsoft Teams in the last 28 days.
Denominator: People enabled for Microsoft Teams in the last 28 days.
People posting in communities: The colored portion and the fraction represent the
percentage of users enabled for Viva Engage that are posting in communities. This

--- Page 1550 of 2193 ---
fraction is constructed from:
Numerator: People posting in Viva Engage communities in the last 28 days.
Denominator: People enabled for Viva Engage in the last 28 days.
4. View related content: Select this link to view collated videos, and other related help
content.
@mentions in emails
1. Header: Highlights the increase in response rate for new email threads started in the last
28 days when they contain @mentions.
2. Body: Provides information on the value of using @mentions in emails. Additionally,
people using @mentions is expressed as a percentage of all users who have sent an email
in the last 28 days.
3. Visualization: Breaks down the response rate for new email threads based on whether
they had @mentions or not:
Responses to emails with @mentions: The colored portion and the fraction
represent the response rate for new email threads containing @mentions. This
fraction is constructed from:
Numerator: New email threads containing @mentions that were started and
received a response in the last 28 days.

--- Page 1551 of 2193 ---
Denominator: New email threads containing @mentions that were started in the
last 28 days.
Responses to emails without @mentions: The colored portion and the fraction
represent the response rate for new email threads containing @mentions. This
fraction is constructed from:
Numerator: New email threads that do not contain @mentions, which were
started and also received a response in the last 28 days.
Denominator: New email threads not containing @mentions that were started in
the last 28 days.
4. View related content: Select this link to view collated videos, and other related help
content.
Breakdown of messages by type in Microsoft Teams
1. Header: Highlights the people who sent channel messages as a percentage of people
who sent any kind of message (including chat and channel messages) in the last 28 days.
2. Body: Provides information on the value of using channel messages within Microsoft
Teams.
3. Visualization: Breaks down the use of chat and channel messages:

--- Page 1552 of 2193 ---
People sending chat messages: The colored portion and the fraction represent the
use of chat messages within people who sent messages on Microsoft Teams. The
fraction is constructed from:
Numerator: People who sent chat messages on Microsoft Teams in the last 28
days.
Denominator: People who sent messages on Microsoft Teams in the last 28 days.
People sending Channel messages: The colored portion and the fraction represent
the use of channel messages within people sending messages on Microsoft Teams.
The fraction is constructed from:
Numerator: People who sent channel messages on Microsoft Teams in the last 28
days.
Denominator: People who sent messages on Microsoft Teams in the last 28 days.
4. View related content: Select this link to view collated videos, and other related help
content.
Questions and Answers in Viva Engage
1. Header: Highlights the posts marked as questions on Viva Engage that have received an
answer marked as "Best answer" as a percentage of all posts marked as questions on Viva
Engage in the last 28 days.

--- Page 1553 of 2193 ---
2. Body: Provides information on the value of using questions and answers in Viva Engage
to share knowledge.
3. Visualization: Breaks down the use of the questions and answers feature in your
organization:
Questions: The colored portion of the bar and associated number represents the
total number of posts marked as questions in the last 28 days.
Questions with answers: The colored portion of the bar and the associated number
represents the number of posts marked as questions and have received answers in
the last 28 days.
Questions with best answers: The colored portion of the bar and the associated
number represents the number of posts that were marked as questions and have
also received a "best answer" in the last 28 days.
4. View related content: Select this link to view collated videos, and other related help
content.
View communication trends over time
For each of the insights above, you can see how the metrics trend over time by selecting an
option from the dropdown shown below:

After you select an option, the charts in the report will update to show a trend over time rather
than a snapshot of the past month.
Related content
Microsoft 365 apps health – Technology experiences (article)
Content collaboration – People experiences (article)
Meetings – People experiences (article)

--- Page 1554 of 2193 ---
Mobility – People experiences (article)
Privacy controls for Adoption Score (article)
Teamwork – People experiences (article)
Last updated on 01/23/2026

--- Page 1555 of 2193 ---
Mobility insights score
Adoption Score provides insights into your organization's digital transformation journey through
its use of Microsoft 365 and the technology experiences that support it. Your organization's score
reflects technology experience measurements and can be compared to benchmarks from
organizations similar to yours. To learn more, check out the Adoption Score overview and read
Microsoft's Privacy Statement .
Prerequisites
To get started with Mobility insights, users in your organization need to be licensed for:
Microsoft Teams
Exchange Online
Word
Excel
PowerPoint
OneNote
For more information, see assign licenses to users.
When users are active in these products at least once in the last 28 days, you start to see the
insights.
Why your organization's mobility score matters
A fundamental pillar of organizational productivity is how well users are able to work flexibly
from wherever they are. With Microsoft 365, users can stay connected with Outlook, Microsoft
Teams, and Viva Engage. Users can also seamlessly collaborate on content by using Word, Excel,
PowerPoint, and OneNote from any location, and platforms.
How the mobility score is calculated
Primary insight in the experience that contains the key metrics for this category in your
organization is provided. Then a scoring framework is used for these metrics to calculate your
organization's score.
Primary insight

--- Page 1556 of 2193 ---
Microsoft 365 lets users work flexibly across apps, including Microsoft Outlook, Word, Excel,
PowerPoint, OneNote, Microsoft Teams, Viva Engage, and Skype for Business. Users can also work
from anywhere by using a seamless experience across desktop, web, and mobile platforms. The
primary insight looks at the products that are enabled for users in your organization - and how
many of these users are active on at least two platforms.

1. Header: Shows the percentage of users in your org who:
Have access to any of Microsoft 365 Apps.
Are active on at least one of these applications on more than one platform.
2. Body: Provides more information on how the use of these applications on multiple
platforms can promote efficiency and satisfaction.
3. Visualization (current state): Shows how many users use more than one platform across
desktop, mobile, and web for at least one Microsoft 365 as follows:
Horizontal bar where the blue (colored) portion represents the percentage expressed
in the header.
The fraction on the bar highlights the (numerator/denominator) used for calculating
the percentage in the header.
Numerator: The number of users in your org using any application within Microsoft
Outlook, Word, Excel, PowerPoint, OneNote and Microsoft Teams, Viva Engage, and
Skype on more than one platform from desktop, web, and mobile in the last 28
days.
Denominator: The number of users licensed for Microsoft 365 Apps, Exchange, Viva
Engage, Microsoft Teams, or Skype for at least one of the last 28 days.
The peer benchmark value for the key metric is also shown as a percentage.

--- Page 1557 of 2193 ---
4. View Mobility resources: To view help content, select this link.
Trend visualization of the primary insight

This chart shows the trend-line, where the numerator is the number of users who used apps over
the last 180 days. Each data point on the line chart is an aggregate of activity for the last 28 days.
Each data point provides a count of all users in your org using an application across at least two
platforms in the last 28 days for each date on the x-axis.
Scoring framework
The mobility score for your organization measures at an organization (aggregate) level whether
users are using Microsoft 365 Apps - Outlook, Teams, Word, Excel, PowerPoint, OneNote, Viva
Engage, and Skype - across the different platforms - desktop, web, and mobile.
The scores aren't provided at the individual user level.
Explore how your org works across platforms
and locations
We also provide you with information that helps you gain visibility into how users in your
organization work across platforms. These additional metrics don't directly contribute to your
Adoption Score, but help you create an action plan as part of your digital transformation.
Use of Outlook across platforms

--- Page 1558 of 2193 ---

1. Header: Shows the percentage of users active on Outlook who are using Outlook on
multiple platforms.
2. Body: Provides information about the value of using Outlook on mobile devices to help stay
connected from anywhere on email.
3. Visualization: Shows the percentage of users who are active on Outlook and are using
either one or more than one platform:
Multiple platforms:
Numerator: The number of users who used Outlook on at least two platforms from
desktop, mobile, or web in the last 28 days.
Denominator: The number of users who used Outlook at least once in the last 28
days.
Desktop only:
Numerator: The number of users who used Outlook on only a desktop platform in
the last 28 days.

--- Page 1559 of 2193 ---
Denominator: The number of users who used Outlook at least once in the last 28
days
Web only:
Numerator: The number of users who used Outlook on only a web platform in the
last 28 days.
Denominator: The number of users who used Outlook at least once in the last 28
days.
Mobile only:
Numerator: Number of users who used Outlook on only a mobile platform in the
last 28 days.
Denominator: Number of users who used Outlook at least once in the last 28 days.
Use of Teams across platforms

1. Header: Shows what percentage of users who are active on Microsoft Teams are using it on
multiple platforms.

--- Page 1560 of 2193 ---
2. Body: Provides information about the value of using Teams on mobile devices to help users
stay up to date on messages while working from any location.
3. Visualization: Shows the percentage of users active on Microsoft Teams who are using it on
either a single platform, or multiple ones:
Multiple platforms:
Numerator: The number of users who used Teams in the last 28 days on 2 or more
of the following platforms: desktop, mobile, or web.
Denominator: The number of users who used Microsoft Teams at least once in the
last 28 days.
Desktop only:
Numerator: The number of users who used Microsoft Teams only on a desktop
platform in the last 28 days
Denominator: The number of users who used Teams at least once in the last 28
days
Web only:
Numerator: The number of users who used Microsoft Teams only on a web
platform in the last 28 days
Denominator: The number of users who used Microsoft Teams at least once in the
last 28 days
Mobile only:
Numerator: The number of users who used Microsoft Teams only on a mobile
platform in the last 28 days
Denominator: The number of users who used Teams at least once in the last 28
days
Use of Microsoft 365 productivity apps across platforms

--- Page 1561 of 2193 ---

1. Header: Shows the percentage of users active on Microsoft 365 Apps (Word, Excel,
PowerPoint, and OneNote) on multiple platforms.
2. Body: Provides information about the value of providing users in your organization the
flexibility to access their files from anywhere.
3. Visualization: The grouped vertical is meant to represent the number of users who are using
each of the apps considered - Word, Excel, PowerPoint, and OneNote - across single or
multiple platforms. For each of these applications, bars represent the following information:
Multiple platforms: The number of users active on an app across at least two
platforms in the last 28 days.
Desktop only: The number of users active on app on only the desktop platform in the
last 28 days.

--- Page 1562 of 2193 ---
Web only: The number of users active on app on only the web platform in the last 28
days.
Mobile only: The number of users active on app on only mobile platform in the last 28
days.
Remote work

1. Header: Shows the percentage of users working only from home or location outside of their
company's network.
2. Body: Highlights the importance of facilitating remote work for users without access to your
organization's physical offices.
3. Visualization: Shows trend-line for daily percentage of users who only work remotely and
users who work onsite. Users are considered onsite if they perform at least three hours of
activity in Microsoft 365 Apps in a day.

--- Page 1563 of 2193 ---
View mobility trends over time
For each of the insights in this article, you can see how the metrics trend over time by selecting
an option from the Data View dropdown menu.

After you select an option, the charts in the report will update to show a trend over time rather
than a snapshot of the past month.
Related content
Microsoft 365 apps health - Technology experiences.
Communication - users experiences.
Content collaboration - users experiences.
Meetings - users experiences.
Privacy controls for Adoption Score.
Teamwork - users experiences.
Last updated on 05/01/2026

--- Page 1564 of 2193 ---
Teamwork
Adoption Score provides insights into your organization's digital transformation journey through
its use of Microsoft 365 and the technology experiences that support it. Your organization's score
reflects technology experience measurements and can be compared to benchmarks from
organizations similar to yours. To learn more, check out the Adoption Score overview and read
Microsoft's Privacy Statement .
Prerequisites
To get started with teamwork insights, users in your organization need to be licensed for:
Microsoft Teams.
SharePoint.
Exchange Online.
For more information, see assign licenses to users.
When users are active in these products at least once in the last 28 days, you start to see the
insights.
Why your org's teamwork score matters
A fundamental pillar for organizational productivity is when a group of users with a common goal
work with each other and with common resources for collective success. Research indicates that
when users share information and collaborate in shared workspaces, they save up to 4 hours a
week. They can find related documents, find context for previous discussions, and deliver towards
shared goals. See the evidence
How the teamwork score is calculated
Primary insight in the experience that contains the key metrics for this category in your
organization is provided. Then a scoring framework is used for these metrics to calculate your
organization's score.
Primary insight
The primary insight looks at:

--- Page 1565 of 2193 ---
All the users who are communicating using email and messages on Microsoft Teams.
Interacting with content on the cloud in shared workspaces.
Within Microsoft 365, Microsoft 365 Groups are the foundation for users to come together in a
shared workspace with the ability to send emails to the group mailbox, share files on the
SharePoint team site, and send channel messages through Microsoft Teams.

1. Header: Provides the key metric of users in your org performing any one the following
activities:
Sending email to a group mailbox through Exchange.
Sending channel messages through Teams.
Reading and creating content (what we collectively refer to as content interaction) in
SharePoint team sites.
As a percentage of all users in your org who are performing any of the following activities
(within or outside of shared workspaces):
Sending email through Exchange.
Sending messages (chat or channel messages) on Microsoft Teams.
Reading and creating content on OneDrive or SharePoint.
And have access to at least one of the following services:
Exchange.
Microsoft Teams.
SharePoint.
2. Body: Provides more information on how communicating and interacting with content,
when done within a shared workspace, can have positive outcomes for productivity in your
organization.

--- Page 1566 of 2193 ---
3. Visualization (current state):
Horizontal bar where the blue portion represents the percentage expressed in the
header.
Highlights the fraction (numerator/denominator) used for computing the percentage
shown in the header.
Numerator: The number of users in your organization who send email to a group
mailbox through Exchange, OR who are sending channel messages through Teams,
OR reading and creating content in SharePoint team sites.
Denominator: The number of users in your org who send emails through Exchange,
OR send messages (chat or channel messages) on Microsoft Teams, OR read and
create content on OneDrive or SharePoint, AND have access to at least one of the
following services: Exchange, Microsoft Teams, or SharePoint.
The peer benchmark value of the key metric is also shown as a percentage.
4. View resources about teamwork: To view help content, select this link.
Trend visualization of the primary insight
The following chart provides the trend of the numerator and the denominator of the key metric
in the primary insight. It shows the number of users engaged in shared workspaces, and the
number of users communicating or interacting with content within the last 180 days. Each data
point on the line chart is an aggregate of activity for the last 28 days.

Scoring framework

--- Page 1567 of 2193 ---
The teamwork score for your organization measures at an aggregate (organizational) level
whether users are consistently communicating or engaging in file activity in shared workspaces
within the last 28 days.
Scores aren't provided at the individual user level.
Explore more about teamwork in your organization
We also provide additional information about how users in your organization work together.
These additional metrics don't directly contribute to your Adoption Score, but are relevant in
helping you create an action plan as part of your digital transformation.
Breakdown of how users engage in shared workspaces

1. Header: Shows a detailed breakdown across the different types of teamwork being
measured.
2. Body: Provides information on the value of working in shared workspaces to help teams be
more effective.

--- Page 1568 of 2193 ---
3. Visualization: The visualization shows the extent to which users who are communicating or
interacting with content are doing so in shared workspaces, as follows:
Sending email: The colored portion and the fraction represent the percentage of users
sending email to group mailboxes. The fraction is composed of:
Numerator: users sending emails to group mailboxes in the last 28 days.
Denominator: users sending emails in the last 28 days. These users are the same
group of users who are marked as sending email in the primary insight of
communication Adoption Score.
Sending messages: The colored portion and the fraction represent the percentage of
users sending messages in channels in Microsoft Teams. The fraction is composed of:
Numerator: users sending channel messages within the last 28 days.
Denominator: users sending chat or channel messages in the last 28 days. These
users are the same group of users who are marked as sending messages in
Microsoft Teams in the primary insight of the communication category in Adoption
Score.
Creating content: The colored portion and the fraction represent the percentage of
users reading or creating content on Microsoft 365 SharePoint team sites.
Numerator: Number of users reading or creating content on Microsoft 365 group
connected team sites.
Denominator: Number of users with access to SharePoint, who read or created
content of any kind in OneDrive or SharePoint sites in the last 28 days.
4. View related content: To view help content, select this link.
Breakdown of workspace engagement by size and age

--- Page 1569 of 2193 ---

1. Header: Categorizes engagement by workspace size, based on member count, and
workspace age in months.
2. Body: Provides information about the value of encouraging users in your organization to
keep only the workspaces that are needed to promote more effective teamwork.
3. Visualization: The engagement breakdown is shown in the form of a heat-map across two
dimensions.
Size of workspace: Workspaces are broken down into three categories based on the
number of members: 2-10 users, 11-100 users, and over 100 users. The All category
includes all size categories.

--- Page 1570 of 2193 ---
Age of workspace: Categorizes workspaces by the number of months since they were
first created. The All category includes all age categories.
Each cell in the chart has a number and color based on the percentage of engaged
workspaces that belong in that category. The workspace categories are based on the
age and size shown in the intersection of that cell. For example, if the cell at the
intersection of 11-100 users and 4-12 months has a value of 52%, it means that 52% of
the workspaces with 11-100 members that are between 4-12 months old, have some
form of engagement. The percentage is calculated as:
Numerator: Workspaces that have engagement in the form of communication
(email and channel messages) or content interaction in the last 28 days.
Denominator: All workspaces that are available in your org for the last 28 days.
4. View related content: To view help content, select this link.
Breakdown of workspaces by level of engagement

--- Page 1571 of 2193 ---

1. Header: Provides a breakdown of workspaces broken out by level of engagement, using
group email, channel messages, and content interaction.
2. Body: Provides information on the value of consistent engagement in the shared
workspaces to help make them more effective at teamwork.
3. Visualization: Provides a view of the workspaces in your organization based on the intensity
of engagement per week. The view includes distributions for different activity types
measured within teamwork, in addition to any engagement, which covers the following
categories:
Group email: Percent of workspaces that have no days/1 day/2-3 days/4+ days of
group email activity per week over the last 28 days.

--- Page 1572 of 2193 ---
Channel messages: Percent of workspaces that have no days/1 day/2-3 days/4+ days
of channel messages per week over the last 28 days.
Content reading or creation: Percent of workspaces that have no days/1 day/2-3
days/4+ days of reading or creating content per week over the last 28 days.
4. View related content: To view help content, select this link.
Use of teams within Microsoft Teams

1. Header: Shows the number of shared workspaces that have a Microsoft Teams team
associated with them.
2. Body: Provides information about the value of having a Microsoft Teams team attached to
the shared workspaces, to help make users associate with them more effective at teamwork.

--- Page 1573 of 2193 ---
3. Visualization: The colored part of the donut chart reflects the percentage of workspaces
that have a Microsoft Teams team attached to them. The percentage is calculated as follows:
Numerator: The number of shared workspaces in your organization that had a
Microsoft Teams team associated with them in the last 28 days.
Denominator: The number of shared workspaces in your org in the last 28 days.
The number in the center of the donut chart represents the total number of shared
workspaces that have a Microsoft Teams team associated with them.
4. View related content: To view help content, select this link.
View teamwork trends over time
For each of the insights in this article, you can see how the metrics trend over time by selecting
an option from the Data View dropdown menu.

After you select an option, the charts in the report will update to show a trend over time rather
than a snapshot of the past month.
Related content
Microsoft 365 apps health - Technology experiences.
Communication - users experiences.
Content collaboration - users experiences.
Meetings - users experiences.
Mobility - users experiences.
Privacy controls for Adoption Score.

--- Page 1574 of 2193 ---
Last updated on 05/01/2026

--- Page 1575 of 2193 ---
Meetings insights score
Check out all of our small business content on Small business help & learning .
Adoption Score provides insights into your organization's digital transformation journey
through its use of Microsoft 365 and the technology experiences that support it. Your
organization's score reflects technology experience measurements and can be compared to
benchmarks from organizations similar to yours. To learn more, check out the Adoption Score
overview and read Microsoft's Privacy Statement .
７ Note
This documentation is for the newest version of Meetings insights. If you're still using the
previous version of Meetings insights, see the article for Meetings insights (Previous
Version).
Prerequisites
To get started with Meetings insights, people in your organization need to be licensed for:
Microsoft Teams
For more information, see assign licenses to users.
After people have been active in Teams at least once in the last 28 days, you'll start to see the
insights.
Why your organization's meetings score matters
Meetings, where people explore ideas, plan, solve problems, and make decisions, are a
fundamental pillar for organizational productivity. Research indicates that when people use
online meeting tools effectively, they tend to save up to 104 minutes per week.
How we calculate the meetings score
Microsoft Teams integrates with Outlook calendar and provides a host of capabilities to make
your meetings more engaging and effective. We provide an overall score for Meetings and
then sub scores for each of the best practices in the Set up, Meet up and Follow up sections.
Overall score

--- Page 1576 of 2193 ---
The overall meeting score is calculated by averaging out the scores across the three phases: Set
up, Meet up, and Follow up. We take into account the number of attendees and the duration of
the meeting when tallying the final averaged scores.
For each meeting:
1. We compute the three sub-scores (Pre, During, Post), by averaging the features, for each
meeting. For example, Set Up: 30, Meet up: 40, Follow up: 20
2. We then compute the average of the three sub-scores for the meeting. From the above
example, 30+40+20/3 = 30
3. We compute the weight of each meeting based on the meeting duration and meeting
size. The longer or bigger a meeting, the more impact it has in the final score.
4. We then perform a weighted sum average on scores from all meetings of the tenant
based on meeting weights to compute the final meeting score for the tenant.
1. Header: Shows the score, out of 100, based on the average of Set Up, Meet Up and
Follow Up phases for online meetings on Microsoft Teams held in the past 28 days.
2. Body: Provides more information on how using online meeting tools effectively can make
meetings more effective.
3. Visualization (current state): In this horizontal bar chart, the blue (colored) portion
represents the score (out of 100) shown in the header.
Trend visualization of the score
The following chart shows the trend-line of score over the selected period. Each data point on
the line chart is an aggregate of activity for the last 28 days.

--- Page 1577 of 2193 ---
What makes up my score?
We provide you with supporting data on each of the Set Up, Meet up and Follow Up phases.
The score for each insight is calculated out of 100.
Set up
This represents the phase that involves scheduling and sharing the details of the meeting and
participants joining the meeting.

--- Page 1578 of 2193 ---
Communication shared ahead of time: This represents the score for Microsoft Teams
meetings that had a Teams conversation meeting chat started before conducting the
meeting. For this to be tracked, a user must go to the meeting chat with the participants
and send a message to the participants, before the scheduled meeting time.
Invitation accepted at a high rate (>50%): This represents the score for Microsoft Teams
meetings that had more than 50% of invited participants accept the meeting invite.
Meet up
This represents the phase of when attendees are in the meeting.

--- Page 1579 of 2193 ---
Used at least one interactive feature: This represents the score for Microsoft Teams
meetings that had attendees use at least one interactive feature. These interactive
features include raising hand, sending a meeting chat message, or sending a reaction in
the meeting. The score is calculated out of 100.
Participated with audio or chat at a high rate (>33%): This represents the score for
Microsoft Teams meetings that had more than 33% of the participants either speak in a
meeting, send a meeting chat, or both. The score is calculated out of 100.
Shared visual content: This represents the score for Microsoft Teams meetings that had
attendees share any visual content in the meeting by either turning on their video,
sharing screen, or both. The score is calculated out of 100.
Follow up

--- Page 1580 of 2193 ---
Created recording: This represents the score for Microsoft Teams meetings that had the
meeting recorded. The score is calculated out of 100.
Sent out post-meeting communication: This represents the score for Microsoft Teams
meetings that had attendee(s) share any chat messages on the meeting chat thread after
the conclusion of that meeting. The score is calculated out of 100.
How can I impact my score?
This section helps understand two insights for the organization:
1. Most significant growth: This section depicts the part of the score that had the highest
growth in the past 28 days.
2. Biggest area for improvement: This section depicts the part of the score that has the
biggest room to improve and impact the org's Adoption Score in the future.
Dig deeper into meetings
This section consists of three sub-sections:

--- Page 1581 of 2193 ---
1. Additional insights: Here we provide more insights that help organizations identify trends
and user behaviors across meetings.
2. Interesting findings: Here we provide some interesting facts about meetings being
conducted in the organization.
3. Microsoft Research: Here we reference Microsoft blogs and public research that provide
recommended practices and their impacts to have effective meetings.
７ Note
The 'Dig deeper into meetings' section does not contribute to the overall score of the
Meetings Page in Adoption Score People Experiences, however some insights in this
section may expand on a primary insight used to calculate a score.
Related content
Microsoft 365 apps health – Technology experiences (article)
Communication – People experiences (article)
Content collaboration – People experiences (article)
Mobility – People experiences (article)
Privacy controls for Adoption Score (article)
Teamwork – People experiences (article)
Last updated on 01/23/2026

--- Page 1582 of 2193 ---
AI adoption category in Adoption Score
Article • 05/30/2025
With AI rapidly entering the day-to-day experience of people in your organization, we
introduced a new People Experiences category called AI adoption.
The AI adoption score represents the extent to which users in your organization have made
Microsoft 365 Copilot a daily habit. A score of 100 means that all licensed Microsoft 365
Copilot users in your organization are using Copilot features for an average of at least three
days per week (or 12 out of the past 28 days). Users that reach this three-day threshold in a
given month are highly likely to become long-term engaged users of Microsoft 365 Copilot. If
users fall short of that three-day threshold, the score still gives credit for making progress to it.
You can use the other insights on the page to understand what behaviors and features
contribute to your score, and to identify actions to take to boost your score.


--- Page 1583 of 2193 ---
AI adoption score calculation methodology
The AI adoption score is calculated based on a target of getting each licensed user to use
Microsoft 365 Copilot for an average of three days per week. The three-day threshold is used
because individuals that achieve it have a high likelihood of becoming a consistent long-term
user of Microsoft 365 Copilot. The score is computed in a way that your organization still gets
credit if users fall short of the three-day threshold. For example, a score of 66 out of 100
indicates that, on average, licensed users are active in Copilot for two days per week (two-
thirds of the way towards the three-day target).
７ Note
For organizations that have enabled at least one user for Microsoft 365 Copilot, AI
adoption score is now added to your total Adoption Score, causing the denominator for
the overall score to increase by 100. If your organization doesn’t have any Microsoft 365
Copilot licenses, then the maximum total score is unchanged (700 or 800) and the peer
benchmark is unchanged (sum of all categories reports except AI adoption score).
How the score is calculated:
For each user licensed for Microsoft 365 Copilot, Microsoft calculates the number of days
out of the prior 28 days on which the user actively used Microsoft 365 Copilot.
The score accounts for Copilot usage in the following Microsoft 365 applications:
Outlook, Teams, Copilot Chat, Word, PowerPoint, Excel, OneNote, and Loop. Only
intentional user actions in these apps are considered; the set of actions is consistent
with those used for the Microsoft 365 Copilot usage report.
The use of agents in any of the applications listed previously is included in addition to
non-agentic features, like summarizing a Word document or drafting an email in
Outlook.
An individual-level score is produced for each user by dividing the count of active days by
12. For example, eight days of usage results in (8/12) × 100 = 66.67. 12 days over a 28
day period is equivalent to an average of three days per week.
The tenant-level score is produced by taking the average score across all licensed users in
the organization. If the score is 50 out of 100, this means that, on average, licensed users
in your organization used Microsoft 365 Copilot on six days out of the past 28 days
(which means an average of 1.5 days per week).
Peer benchmark for AI adoption score

--- Page 1584 of 2193 ---
The AI adoption score peer benchmark allows you to compare your organization's score with
organizations like yours. Consistent with other scores in Adoption Score, the benchmark is
calculated by taking the average AI adoption score across organizations similar to yours (based
on your region, industry, and number of users licensed for Microsoft 365). To learn more, see
Interpreting your organization's Adoption Score

To learn more, see Interpreting your organization's Adoption Score.
Time trends
Time trend data is provided for each category score to track progress. This allows visibility of
Copilot usage across various Microsoft 365 applications over different time ranges, similar to
other categories. Alongside the current 28-day rolling period (RL28), insights are available for:
30 days (RL30)
90 days (RL90)
180 days (RL180)
View AI adoption resources

--- Page 1585 of 2193 ---
Resources are available for administrators to facilitate adoption, including:
Copilot Prompt Gallery
Success Kit (v2.0)
User Enablement
Copilot Dashboard in Viva Insights
Microsoft Copilot Scenario
Organizational messages in AI adoption score
Organizational messages in AI adoption score enable you to drive awareness of Microsoft 365
Copilot features for licensed users that haven’t tried certain key Copilot capabilities yet. You

--- Page 1586 of 2193 ---
can use organizational messages to quickly deliver actionable notifications directly in Microsoft
products (including Teams and Windows), targeted to users based on their Microsoft 365
Copilot activity, all while maintaining user-level privacy.

To use organizational messages in AI adoption score, you must be assigned one of the
following admin roles:
Global administrator
Organizational message writer
After selecting Take action, the following message configuration panel appears:

Administrators can select one of three message options. Messages will be sent to users who
have a Copilot license assigned to them but haven’t actively used relevant Copilot features over
the prior 28 days. Admins can further filter down this list by excluding certain groups. Admins
can also configure the start date and end date for the message.
To edit a message after it has already been scheduled, admins can cancel and reschedule it.
Currently, organizational messages will show up on either new Teams or Windows 11
notification center. The languages of the messages will adjust based on end-users’ preferred
languages.

--- Page 1587 of 2193 ---
How are people using Microsoft 365 Copilot?
Microsoft 365 Copilot usage insights are organized into six key areas:
Microsoft Copilot usage frequency
Teams meetings and chats
Documents (Word, Excel, PowerPoint, OneNote)
Emails
Microsoft 365 Copilot Chat
Agents for Copilot
These insights show how many users are engaging with various Copilot features compared to
the total number of users enabled over a 28-day period.
You can use these insights to:
Identify which Copilot features are most popular among your users
Spot underutilized features that might benefit from more user training
Track adoption trends across different Microsoft 365 applications over 7, 30, 90, 180 days’
time ranges

--- Page 1588 of 2193 ---

７ Note
When you select the settings to opt out specific user groups from calculating People
experience insights in Adoption Score, the AI adoption category would not respect that
opt out for the current release.
Sentiment survey upload experience
In this section, you can upload Copilot survey results to have them displayed in the Microsoft
Copilot Dashboard.
７ Note
You won't be able to view the results on this page; they're only available in the Microsoft
Copilot Dashboard.

--- Page 1589 of 2193 ---
Use this feature to provide your organizational leaders with a centralized location for insights
on how users feel about the AI adoption they receive from Copilot.
This feature is only available for Global administrators. Users without this role can't see it in the
Microsoft 365 admin center.
Upload survey data
To access the Sentiment survey upload feature in the Microsoft 365 admin center, follow these
steps:
1. In the Microsoft 365 admin center, go to Reports > Adoption Score.
2. Navigate to AI adoption score and select View details.
3. On the AI adoption score page, navigate to Assess Copilot sentiment for your org and
select Record survey results.

Update results over time

You can upload new survey data as often as you want to keep the Copilot Dashboard updated
with the latest feedback from your users.

--- Page 1590 of 2193 ---
If you want to delete or overwrite the existing survey data, select the Delete or Overwrite
buttons at the bottom of the page. Note, these actions can't be undone.
Suggested Copilot survey questions
To measure Copilot user sentiment in your organization, we recommend delivering a survey to
users that asks them to indicate their level of agreement with the following four statements:
Using Copilot helps improve the quality of my work or output
Using Copilot helps me spend less mental effort on mundane or repetitive tasks
Using Copilot allows me to complete tasks faster
When using Copilot, I am more productive
For each of these, we recommend allowing users to indicate whether or not they Strongly
Disagree, Disagree, Neither Agree Nor Disagree, Agree, or Strongly Agree with the statement.
You can then combine the Agree and Strongly Agree responses to compute the % of users who
agreed with each statement and compare results with the Microsoft benchmarks shown in this
tab.
Your user survey doesn't need to be limited to these four statements, but we recommend
including them at a minimum for easy comparison with Microsoft’s benchmark results.

--- Page 1591 of 2193 ---
Adoption Score Organizational
Messages
Article • 06/14/2024
Organizational messages enable IT admins to deliver clear, actionable messages in-
product and in a targeted way, while maintaining user-level privacy. Organizational
messages in Adoption Score use targeted in-product notifications to advise on
Microsoft 365 recommended practices based on Adoption Score insights. Users can be
reminded to use products that have recently been deployed, encouraged to try a
product on a different surface, or to recommend new ways of working, such as using
@mentions to improve response rates in communications. Templated messages are
delivered to users in their flow of work through surfaces including Outlook, Excel,
PowerPoint, Word, and new Teams. Authorized professionals can use the organizational
messages wizard in Adoption Score to choose from up to three templated message
types, define when and how often a message can be displayed, and exclude groups or
priority accounts from receiving the message.
Organizational messages for Adoption Score will initially roll out to Communication,
Content Collaboration, Mobility, and more to follow to support all People Experience
categories.
７ Note
The feature is currently in preview. If you encounter any bugs or have any
suggestions, give us feedback in the Microsoft 365 admin center. We appreciate
your feedback and will reach out to you as fast as we can.
Who can use the feature?
For a successful preview experience, you need to be one of the following admin roles:
Global administrator
Organizational message writer
The Organizational message writer role is the new built-in role that allows assigned
admins to view and configure messages. The Global administrator can assign the
Organizational message writer role to admins:
1. Go to Roles > Role assignments.

--- Page 1592 of 2193 ---
2. Search for and select Organizational message writer.
3. Under Assigned, select Add users or Add groups.
4. Choose a group of admins you'd like to assign the role to, and select Add.
Where will the messages appear?
In this preview, we support the teaching call-out and business bars in Word, Excel,
PowerPoint, Outlook Desktop Apps, and new Teams. Business bars are supported by
Microsoft 365 Consumer subscribers, Office 2019, Office 2016, Office 2013, and Office
2010.

The user sees an in-product notification recommending they use Teams messages more.
The desktop teaching call-out is supported by Microsoft 365 Consumer and Commercial
Office 2019, and Office 2016 Consumer.

--- Page 1593 of 2193 ---
The user sees an in-product notification recommending they save to OneDrive more.
The user sees an in-product notification recommending they use interactive features
during Teams meetings.
How to enable Adoption Score Organizational
Messages
To enable Adoption Score Organizational Messages, the global administrator needs to
enable Adoption Score first:
1. Sign in to the admin center and go to Reports > Adoption Score.

--- Page 1594 of 2193 ---
2. Select Enable Adoption Score. It can take up to 24 hours for insights to become
available.
3. Under the Organizational Messages tab, select Allow approved admins to send
in-product recommendations to specified users.
７ Note
Only a global administrator can enable Adoption Score. The organizational
message writer role can only opt in for Adoption Score Organizational Messages.
After Adoption Score is enabled, the global administrator and organizational message
writer role can opt in for Adoption Score Organizational Message.
Visit privacy controls for Adoption Score to understand how to enable Adoption Score.

Getting started
In the Microsoft 365 admin center, go to Reports > Adoption Score.
We currently have organizational messages for three people experience categories:
Communication, Content collaboration, and Mobility. In each category, you'll find
available actions to take under the How can I impact my score section. Select See what
action you can take > Create message to start the process.
To see all available organizational messages, go to the Actions tab next to Overview.
Choose one of the available messages listed and select Create message to start.

--- Page 1595 of 2193 ---
Capabilities
As global administrator or organizational message writer role, you can do any of the
following actions:
Choose a message from a set of templated content for business bars or teaching
call-outs
Select the recipients based on user activities, Microsoft Entra user groups, and
group level aggregates
Schedule a time frame and frequency for delivery of the messages
Save drafts anytime during the message creation process
Track the status of organizational messages and user engagement
Manage scheduled or active organizational messages
Take action on insights
Step 1: Choose a message to take action
1. Under the Messages tab, view where the messages will appear.
2. Choose a message from a set of templated content.
3. Select Preview this message to see an example of what recipients will see during
the date range you choose.
4. The messages will show up in the same language as the user's surface. Currently,
there are 41 languages supported. Check the appendix to see which languages are
supported.
5. Select Next to proceed to the Recipients tab.
6. If you want to exit the message creation process for now and save a draft, select
Save and close. The drafts are stored in the Your org's messages tab under
Actions.
Step 2: Select the recipients
1. Under the Recipients tab, the recipients are by default selected based on their
activities. For example, targeted users who aren't actively using OneDrive or

--- Page 1596 of 2193 ---
SharePoint with the apps enabled for the past 28 days.
2. Select Apply filter > Choose organizational attribute.
Groups: In addition to the default recipients, you can send messages to
specific Microsoft Entra user groups
Companies, Country (State) - City, Departments: Using group-level
aggregates, you can apply attributes filter such as attributes like location,
departments, and companies to target specific groups of audiences. Learn
more about how to open Group Level Aggregates and validate data accuracy.
3. You can also omit users with priority accounts or in certain Microsoft 365 groups.
4. Select Next to proceed to the Schedule tab.
７ Note
The recipient list is refreshed daily. The users who adopted the recommended
practices will be removed from the recipient lists.

Step 3: Schedule a time window and frequency for
delivery of the messages
1. Under the Schedule tab, select Start date.
2. Selecting an End date is optional. The default duration is 365 days.
3. Choose Frequency.

--- Page 1597 of 2193 ---
4. Select Next to proceed to the Finish tab.
７ Note
If the frequency of the message is set as once a week, the message will only show
on one of the surfaces per week. After the user selects or dismisses the message, it
won't show up again. Teaching call-out messages only appear twice in their lifetime
even if the user doesn't select it.

Step 4: Finish or Save Draft
1. Under the Finish tab, confirm the message details and then select Schedule.
2. If you want to exit the message creation process for now and save a draft, select
Save and close. The drafts are stored in the Your org's messages tab under
Actions.
Step 5: Track the status of the messages and user
engagement
Once messages have been created, you'll see the reporting in the table under the Your
org's messages tab under Actions. The following information is available:
Message name
Status: Draft/Scheduled/Active/Scheduled/Canceled/Completed/Error

--- Page 1598 of 2193 ---
Last edited date
Start date
End date
Related category
Related metric
Creator
(Available after messages are active) Total messages seen: total number of times
the message was shown to users
(Available after messages are active) Total clicks: total number of times the
message was clicked by users
７ Note
This capability is only available to Product admins, report reader roles, and user
success specialists who have reader permissions.

Step 6: Cancel or clone messages
Once messages have been created, you'll see the reporting in the table under the Your
org's messages tab under Actions.
Select three dots to the right of Message name to see a dropdown of actions.

--- Page 1599 of 2193 ---
Select cancel or clone.
７ Note
Each tenant can have one active message for each insight. If you want to schedule a
new message, you can go to the Your org's message page to cancel active ones.
FAQs
Why does the total number of messages seen differ from
the expected number?
A: For any given message, not every user in its selected audience (selected as message
recipients) will receive the message. This is expected behavior because the message
delivery depends on other factors that affect a message's reach, including:
User behavior: some delivery channels require the user to go to a specific
location/app to have a chance to see the message (for example, a Microsoft 365
app call-out message can only be delivered to a user who opens the Microsoft 365
app).
System protections to prevent over-messaging and user dissatisfaction: some
communication channels have message frequency limits if too many messages are
live at a given time (for example, a Teaching call-out won't appear more than twice
to each user).
How can I test the messages before sending them to
users of my entire company?
You can send messages to specific Microsoft Entra groups, such as your IT department.
See Select the recipients for details.
What is the recommended time frame window for the
messages?
As the frequency of the messages is at most once a week, the recommended minimum
duration is one month. The recommended length of the time window is 12 months. The
recipient's list is refreshed daily. Your messages will always be sent to users who haven't

--- Page 1600 of 2193 ---
adopted the recommended practices in the last 28 days. Messages won't repeatedly
send to users who have already adopted.
Will I be able to customize the text in the messages?
Not currently, but additional customization options will be enabled in future releases.
Organizational Messages in Microsoft Intune
Organizational messages in Intune enable organizations to deliver branded personalized
messages to their employees via native Windows 11 surfaces, such as Notification
Center and the Get started app. These messages are intended to help people ramp up in
new roles quicker, learn more about their organization, and stay informed of new
updates and trainings. Learn more about Organizational messages in Microsoft Intune.
Appendix
Messages Localization supported
ﾉ Expand table
Languages Locale
Arabic ar
Bulgarian bg
Chinese (Simplified) zh-cn
Chinese (Traditional) zh-tw
Croatian hr
Czech cs
Danish da
Dutch nl
English (United States) en
Estonian et
Finnish fi

--- Page 1601 of 2193 ---
Languages Locale
French (France) fr
German de
Greek el
Hebrew he
Hungarian hu
Indonesian id
Italian it
Japanese ja
Korean ko
Latvian lv
Lithuanian lt
Norwegian (Bokmål) no
Polish pl
Portuguese (Brazil) pt-br
Portuguese (Portugal) pt-pt
Romanian ro
Russian ru
Serbian (Latin) sr
Slovak sk
Slovenian sl
Spanish (Spain) es
Swedish sv
Thai th
Turkish tr
Ukrainian uk
Vietnamese vi

--- Page 1602 of 2193 ---
Languages Locale
Catalan ca
Basque eu
Galician gl
Serbian (Cyrillic) RS sr-Cyrl
Related content
Microsoft 365 apps health – Technology experiences (article)
Content collaboration – People experiences (article)
Meetings – People experiences (article)
Mobility – People experiences (article)
Privacy controls for Adoption Score (article)
Teamwork – People experiences (article)
Feedback
Was this page helpful?  Yes  No
Provide product feedback

--- Page 1603 of 2193 ---
Group Level Aggregates in Adoption Score
Group Level Aggregates help admins and adoption strategists understand how different groups
are performing on the people experiencing insights. Group Level Aggregates provide a higher
level of insights and actions for your organization based on data from Microsoft Entra ID. You can
get group-level insights for your organization in Microsoft 365 and use them to:
Compare different groups of your organization to understand the overall distribution of
adoption scores and insights, groups that are doing well, and groups that need growth.
Focus on a specific group of your organization to understand more about it in isolation.
How to enable Group Level Aggregates
Group Level Aggregates isn't enabled by default.
７ Note
Group Level Aggregates can only be enabled by the Global administrator role.
To enable Group Level Aggregates:
1. Sign in to the Microsoft 365 admin center .
2. Go to Settings > Org settings > Adoption Score.
3. Under Insights Calculation and Display, select Turn on group-level insights.
Once enabled, it can be accessed by all roles on the people experiences pages.

--- Page 1604 of 2193 ---

Data accuracy evaluation
Before group-level insights can be enabled, you need to run a data accuracy evaluation to
determine if group data is accurate. The evaluation helps you make an informed decision about
which segments to use that will best reflect your organization's composition.

--- Page 1605 of 2193 ---
The data accuracy evaluation check is a report that reflects the organization's composition based
on key attributes in Microsoft Entra ID.
Currently, we provide capabilities for five attributes in Microsoft Entra ID:
Company
Department

--- Page 1606 of 2193 ---
Country
State
City
The report displays the number of people who are included for all the different organizational
attributes out of the total number of employees in Microsoft Entra ID. This is included based on
an entry in the Microsoft Entra ID fields for those five selected attributes. You can download the
report for these five attributes and check for data accuracy. This report is only run and approved
once while setting up Group Level Aggregates.
Example: In the screenshot, the organization has the 'Department' attribute filled for XX out of
the total YY employees with ZZ unique departments mentioned. You would see ZZ unique
departments in the Group Level Aggregates filters on people experience insights pages.

--- Page 1607 of 2193 ---
To have all people included in the group-level insights reporting, make sure the above five fields
are accurately updated for all employees in Microsoft Entra ID. For subsequent updates to the
Microsoft Entra attributes, you don't need to run the evaluation again. The updates are available
immediately. Learn more about how to update user data in Microsoft Entra here.
Filtering people experiences scores
Group-level insights on people experience insights help filter the overall score and each insight
for the selected group. When certain filters are applied, you'll see an informative message when
some insights aren't available.
In some cases, you may not see an entire group in the filters despite all data being accurate in
Microsoft Entra ID. This happens when the group has fewer than 10 individuals for that unique
group. We do this to protect user privacy so that no insights can be directly correlated to
individual users.
Last updated on 05/06/2026

--- Page 1608 of 2193 ---
Microsoft 365 Apps health - technology
experiences
Adoption Score provides insights into your organization's digital transformation journey through
its use of Microsoft 365 and the technology experiences that support it. Your organization's score
reflects technology experience measurements and can be compared to benchmarks from
organizations similar to yours. The apps health category is part of the measurements that falls
under technology experiences. To learn more, check out the Adoption Score overview and read
Microsoft's Privacy Statement .
Why your organization's Microsoft 365 productivity
apps health score matters
Your organizational productivity is dependent on healthy application environment. Devices
running most current versions of Microsoft 365 productivity apps on recommended channel are
more secure and help people in your organization get the most out of the features in Microsoft
365.
How the Microsoft 365 apps health score is calculated
The Microsoft 365 apps health score is calculated by measuring the number of devices on each
update channel. We also determine whether the devices are running a supported version, and the
most current release of Microsoft 365 apps.
Primary insight in the experience that contains the key metrics for this category in your
organization is provided. Then a scoring framework is used for these metrics to calculate your
organization's score.
Primary insight
The primary insight is calculated from devices that are running Microsoft 365 Apps on
recommended updated channel.

--- Page 1609 of 2193 ---

Information considered for primary insight includes Microsoft 365 apps channel, build, and
version that's running on the device.
1. Header: Shows percentage of devices on recommended update channel
2. Body: Provides more information on how running the devices on recommended update
channel helps getting latest update and running current versions on devices.
3. Visualization (current state):
Horizontal bars where the blue-colored portions represent the percentage of devices
running recommended updated channel.
Highlight the (numerator/denominator) of the fraction used to calculate the
percentage expressed in horizontal bars.
Peer Benchmark value for devices running on recommended updated channel is also
shown as a percentage.
Trend visualization of the primary insight
The following chart shows the number of devices in the recommended update channel over the
last 180 days. The data point on the line chart is an aggregate of activity for the last 28 days.


--- Page 1610 of 2193 ---
Scoring framework
The Microsoft 365 apps health score measures whether devices are running Microsoft 365 apps
on recommended channel and on latest versions.
Explore your organization Microsoft 365 app channels
and versions
We also provide supporting information that helps you gain additional visibility into what
channels and versions devices in your organization are currently running. These additional
metrics don't contribute to your Adoption Score but can help you create an action plan to
increase your Microsoft 365 apps health score by making sure devices run Microsoft 365 apps on
recommended channels.
Devices on current channel and running supported versions

--- Page 1611 of 2193 ---

1. Header: Highlights the percentage of devices on the Current Channel are running
supported versions of Microsoft 365 Apps.
2. Body: Provides information about the value of devices running Microsoft 365 apps on
recommended channel.
3. Visualization: The breakdown in the visualization represents the extent to what percentage
of devices on latest and supported versions of Microsoft 365 apps across different channels
as follows:
Supported versions: The blue bar represents the percentage of devices running on
supported version of Microsoft 365 apps.
Latest releases: The teal color bar represents percentage of devices on latest releases.
4. Learn more: To view help content, select this link.

--- Page 1612 of 2193 ---
Devices running latest and supported versions

1. Header: Highlights the percentage of devices running supported versions and devices
running the most recent versions.
2. Body: Provides information about the value running devices on recommended channels and
supported/latest versions.
3. Visualization: The breakdown in the visualization is meant to represent the extent to show
how many devices running supported versions and most recent versions of Microsoft 365
apps as follows:
Supported versions: The blue (colored) portion of the bar and the fraction
(numerator/denominator) on the bar represents the percentage of devices running
supported version of Microsoft 365 apps.
Numerator: The number of devices on supported versions of Microsoft 365 apps
within the last 28 days.
Denominator: The number of devices using Microsoft 365 apps within the last 28
days.

--- Page 1613 of 2193 ---
Most recent versions: The teal (colored) portion of the bar and the fraction
(numerator/denominator) on the bar represents the percentage of devices running
recent versions of Microsoft 365 apps.
Numerator: The number of devices on recent versions of Microsoft 365 apps within
the last 28 days.
Denominator: The number of devices using Microsoft 365 apps within the last 28
days.
4. Learn more: To view help content, select this link.
Trend visualization of the devices
This chart shows the trend-line of the devices running supported versions and latest versions of
Microsoft 365 apps over the last 180 days.


--- Page 1614 of 2193 ---
Devices in your organization
This section helps you act on the metrics you want to focus on by providing relevant information
to all the metrics for Microsoft 365 apps health - technology experiences.
The following columns are presented in the table at the channel/version level:
Channel: Current Microsoft 365 apps channel on the devices.
Status: Microsoft 365 apps support state of the devices based on current channel and
version.
Versions: Current Microsoft 365 apps versions on the devices.
# of devices: Number of devices.
Related content
Communication - People experiences.
Content collaboration - People experiences.
Meetings - People experiences.
Mobility - People experiences.
Privacy controls for Adoption Score.
Teamwork - People experiences.
Last updated on 05/01/2026

--- Page 1615 of 2193 ---
Endpoint analytics in Microsoft
Adoption Score
Understanding how devices in your organization contribute to the user's experience is critical to
any digital transformation effort. To help you understand this aspect, the Microsoft Adoption
Score includes endpoint analytics information. The Endpoint analytics page in Microsoft
Adoption Score shares organizational level insights with roles outside of Microsoft Intune. The
visibility and insights provided in areas like device boot times and application reliability can help
your users by highlighting potential issues within your organization. For instance, endpoint
analytics can expose a long sign-in process or issues with applications unexpectedly stopping.
Endpoint analytics page in the Adoption Score report
Endpoint analytics contains great insights, but it requires access to the Microsoft Intune admin
center. If you're an Intune Administrator, you can display the analytics. However, other users of
Microsoft Adoption Score might be unaware this information exists. Displaying these insights to
Microsoft Adoption Score users allows them to use the data to help drive transformation efforts
across your organization.

The Endpoint analytics page looks similar to the other pages in Adoption Score, making it easy
to dive right in. The following information is displayed on the Endpoint analytics page:

--- Page 1616 of 2193 ---
The current endpoint analytics score
Endpoint analytics score over the past 180 days
Startup performance scores
About the endpoint analytics scores
The endpoint analytics score is a weighted average of the Startup performance, Application
reliability, and Work from anywhere scores.
Startup performance metrics
Select the Learn more link under the startup performance information to get more details and a
link to View more in Microsoft Intune. The Startup performance metrics are averages of the
following items:
Average device startup time in seconds
Total boot time: The combination of the Group Policy phase and the Time to sign-in
prompt
Group Policy phase: The time spent querying and processing Group Policy
Time to sign-in prompt: Boot time minus the time spent processing Group Policy
Average sign-in time in seconds
Total sign-in time: Total time for the Group Policy phase, Time to desktop, and Time to
responsive desktop
Group Policy phase: The time spent querying and processing Group Policy
Time to desktop: The time it takes to reach the desktop but where background
processes are still running, and users experience slower performance
Time to responsive desktop: Time where background processes are complete and CPU
utilization is less than 50%

--- Page 1617 of 2193 ---

Application reliability metrics
The chart shows the overall Application reliability score for your tenant with the peer
benchmark. Select the Learn more about app reliability link under the app reliability information
to get more details and a link to View more in Microsoft Intune. The following Application
reliability information comes from Microsoft Adoption Score:
Top apps reducing your score in the last 14 days
App name: The app identifier in the file manifest provided by your client devices. The
app name is typically in executable (or .exe) format.
App reliability score: A score between 0 and 100 that represents the relative reliability of
the application in your tenant. This score is calculated based on Mean time to failure and
Total usage duration (14 days). A score of 0 represents an unreliable app that likely
hampers end-user productivity. A score of 100 represents a reliable app that likely
contributes to end-user productivity.
Mean time to failure in hours: The average amount of engagement time that an end
user is able to use the application before a crash occurs over the past 14 days. This value
is calculated by dividing Total usage duration (14 days) by Total crashes (14 days). By
relating usage duration and crash counts, the frequency of crashes across different
applications is normalized. Applications without crash events in your tenant over the past
14 days are given a mean time to failure value of No crash events.
Active devices: The total number of your tenant's enrolled devices that launched this app
at least once in the past 14 days.

--- Page 1618 of 2193 ---

Last updated on 12/11/2025

--- Page 1619 of 2193 ---
Microsoft 365 Experience insights
dashboard
Article • 01/06/2025
The Experience insights (preview) dashboard shows you data across usage and
sentiment to give you a fuller view of your organization's experience with Microsoft 365.
Experience insights is optimized for organizations with 2000 plus seats. We are working
on bringing the experience to smaller organizations in the future. This information and
data on the dashboard will help you better understand and improve your users'
experience with Microsoft 365. The dashboard shows you data across usage and user
sentiment and helps give you a fuller picture of your users' overall experience. You can
drill down into specific information such as feature usage for certain apps, exact
feedback and Net Promoter Score (NPS) comments, and top help articles viewed by
users in your organization. This info can help you identify opportunities to improve
users’ Microsoft 365 products and app experiences in your organization.
Watch: Experience insights dashboard overview
https://learn-video.azurefd.net/vod/player?id=e157135d-859f-4b5f-aef4-
8fb69496de9b&locale=en-us&embedUrl=%2Fmicrosoft-
365%2Fadmin%2Fmisc%2Fexperience-insights-dashboard
Go to the Experience insights dashboard
From the Microsoft 365 admin center, you can access it at any time by selecting
Experience insights (preview) from the admin home page.
If you’re a member of the reports reader role, once you sign into the admin center, you’ll
automatically go to the Experience insights (preview) dashboard page. You can switch
back to the admin center Dashboard view by selecting the dropdown option next to
Experience insights (preview).
To learn more, see About admin roles and Assign admin roles.
Overview
The Overview page shows you data and information on feedback and help article views
in your organization.

--- Page 1620 of 2193 ---
Suggested training
Suggested training gives you deeper insights into the Microsoft 365 help and training
articles being read by your signed-in users on support.microsoft.com and in-app help
panels with these 3 insights:
Top viewed articles for your organization shows you help and training articles that
have been getting the most views by people in your organization.
Trending across organizations shows you the help and training topics that are
moving up the most in your organizations most viewed list.
Commonly viewed together gives you insights into the additional help articles
users in all Microsoft 365 organizations are reading, along with the top viewed and
top trending articles. You can use this info to put together and share training
packages for your users.
Use this data to decide which help articles and training resources to share with your
users about these products and apps, or make sure your helpdesk is aware of these
areas so they can answer any user questions. If your org doesn’t have enough views on
help and training articles, you’ll see data from other Microsoft 365 organizations.

--- Page 1621 of 2193 ---
Apps and services data
The Apps and services data section shows you a unified view across usage and
sentiment in your organization to give you an at-a-glance understanding of your users'
experience with Microsoft 365. Select an app or service to get additional details, such as
comments submitted through feedback and NPS surveys, or the top Microsoft 365 help
articles your users viewed. You can also favorite the apps or services in the list so that
you can more easily view them.
Apps and services chart information
The chart information gives you insight into the apps and services that you want to track
data on. Select an app or service to dig deeper into usage, product feedback, net
promoter score and help content data.
Active users tells you the total count of unique users who performed at least one
intentional action, like opening a file, in the app over the selected time period. Use this
data to make sure you are hitting your adoption goals. Learn more
Product usage is the percentage of people who are actively using the products that are
enabled for them to use. Use this data to make decisions on where to optimize product
assignments.
In-product feedback Is the total number of feedback responses from within the app or
service that were initiated and submitted by your users. Use this data to gauge the
success and satisfaction people have with the apps. Learn more
NPS survey response volume is the total number of responses to the Net Promoter
Score (NPS) survey. By default, Microsoft sends the survey to 5% of your users and asks
“Would you recommend this product?” Use this data to gauge user satisfaction and to
see what people are saying about the app. Learn more

--- Page 1622 of 2193 ---
Help article views is the total number of views of Microsoft help articles and training
videos about the app. Use this data to find topics of interest and share the suggested
training with your users. Learn more
７ Note
You can filter the chart data for trends over the last 30 days, 90 days, or 180 days.
Products and services data
Select a product or service to see more detailed information about product usage, user
feedback, Net Promoter Score (NPS) and what help articles your users are reading.
Teams usage example
For some apps and services, you can see additional information into the usage of
specific features to get a better understanding of what your users are using the most.
Teams user feedback example
In the user feedback section, you can see the actual comments your users submitted to
help you gauge if there is a pattern that needs to be addressed.

--- Page 1623 of 2193 ---
Teams Net Promoter Score (NPS) example
NPS details allows you to see promoters, passives, and detractors so that you can get a
pulse on the sentiment in your organization. Similar to product feedback, you can also
view the specific comments your users submitted. In some cases where there is enough
volume, you may also see Top topics that categorizes some of the comments into
bucketed categories for easier parsing of the data.

--- Page 1624 of 2193 ---
Teams help article example
For the first time, you can now see what articles your users are consuming on
Support.Microsoft.com com or via the Microsoft 365 in-app help experiences. You can
see the top articles for the specific app or service in your organization, how many
people are viewing the app, and preview the article in-line. This can be an excellent way
of identifying what your users are trying to do and where they may be struggling. Since
not all users seek out help, it’s a good indication of content that may be beneficial to a
broader set of users in the organization. Learn more

--- Page 1625 of 2193 ---
Interpret your organization's help article views
Chart information gives you insight into the apps and services that you want to track
data on. Help article views is the total number of help article page views that users in
your organization have viewed in a Microsoft 365 app or on support.microsoft.com.
７ Note
Help article views are only shown for users who have signed in to the desktop app
or have signed in to support.microsoft.com .
ﾉ Expand table

--- Page 1626 of 2193 ---
Item Description
1 Use the Help content tab to see where people need help using the app or service.
2 You can filter for trends over the last 30 days, 90 days, or 180 days.
3 Total number of help article page views in app or on support.microsoft.com .
4 List of the top help articles related to the app or service that your end-users are reading. If
an article covers multiple apps, it will be shown for each related app.
Examples of help articles
Help articles can be found in-app in the help pane or at the Microsoft support page .
Help article on Microsoft support page
In-app help article in Microsoft Word

--- Page 1628 of 2193 ---
Manage adoption success with actions in
Experience insights
Actions let you track the actions you take to drive user engagement and success for
Microsoft 365 in your organization. You can measure the impact of your actions by
analyzing how each action correlates with changes in usage, NPS, feedback, and help
article views. This empowers you to make data-driven decisions and continuously
improve your strategies for user engagement and satisfaction.
The actions experience within Microsoft 365 admin center includes the following
features and capabilities:
Add an action
Import multiple actions from a CSV file
Edit and remove previously added actions
Duplicate actions
Export the list of actions to CSV
View your action impact on Experience insights graphs
See the list of actions related to a product on the product detail card
Get started
To manage actions, open the Experience Insights dashboard in the Microsoft 365 admin
center, and then select the Actions tab. There are two key experiences to familiarize
yourself within actions experience:

--- Page 1629 of 2193 ---
Adding new actions
1. Select Add action.
2. Complete the form with the following details:
Title: Provide a distinct and descriptive title to help identify the action.
Date of action: Enter the date of that you took the action.
Action type: Select the type of action.
Notes: Optional field to add in further description of your action.
Target products: Select one or more products associated with the action.
3. Once all required details are entered, select Save.
You can also import multiple actions from CSV. Select Import from CSV and follow the
instructions for editing and uploading the file. There’s even a sample, pre-formatted CSV
file that you can use to get started.
Viewing action impact
Once an action is added, you can view it in the graphs in Experience insights, facilitating
the analysis of how specific actions influence the data.

--- Page 1630 of 2193 ---
1. From the Actions list, select the Target product for an action. This will open the
product detail card.
2. Select the Usage, Help Content, Product feedback, or Net Promoter Score tab.
3. On the date of the action, there will be a vertical dashed line tracking the action
against the graph’s data.
Note: You might need to change the Date range to see the action.
4. When you select the Title of the action, above the vertical dashed line, you’ll get
more details about the action.
Additional resources
View your organization's Adoption Score
Adoption Score supports the journey to digital transformation with insights about how
your organization uses Microsoft 365 and the technology experiences that support it.
Your organization's score reflects people and technology experience measurements and
can be compared to benchmarks from organizations similar in size to yours. For more
information on Adoption Score, read, Adoption Score.
Take training for adoption specialists

--- Page 1631 of 2193 ---
In this introductory course, you'll learn the six critical elements to drive adoption of your
Microsoft cloud services to deliver value to your company. This course is applicable to
any size company and uses Microsoft 365 and Microsoft Teams as the example service
to create real-world scenarios. For more information about training for adoption
specialists, read Use the Microsoft service adoption framework to drive adoption in your
enterprise.
Join the adoption community
Welcome to the Driving Adoption Community! Connect and discuss the latest topics
and best practices in driving cloud adoption. Meet and learn from peers and Microsoft
Staff and stay up to date on upcoming training, events, and our monthly Community
calls. For more information, read Driving Adoption .
Use the Microsoft 365 adoption tools
Use our resources to go from inspiration to execution with our productivity cloud. Get
started, experiment with our services, and onboard employees at scale while being
confident that you are improving the employee experience. For more information, read
Drive value with Microsoft 365 adoption tools .
Feedback
Was this page helpful?  Yes  No
Provide product feedback

--- Page 1632 of 2193 ---
Change your organization's address, contact
preferences, and technical contact in the
Microsoft 365 admin center
As an admin, you can use the Microsoft 365 admin center to make changes to your organization
profile, like your billing account information, address, phone number, and technical contact.
To change the address associated with your invoice or subscription, see Change your billing
addresses for Microsoft 365 for business.
Before you begin
You must be a Billing account owner or Billing account contributor to do the tasks in this article.
For more information, see About admin roles.
Edit your organization's information
You can change most of your organization's information, like the billing account name, sold-to
address, and registration number in the billing account details in the Microsoft 365 admin center.
1. In the Microsoft 365 admin center, go to the Billing > Billing accounts page.
2. Select the billing account that you want to edit.
3. To change the billing account name, in the Billing account details section, under your
organization's name, select Edit name. In the Edit billing account name panel, change the
name, then select Save.
4. To change the sold-to address, in the Address details section, select Update sold to. In the
Edit sold-to address panel, you can update the following information for your organization:
a. The Doing business as name (optional). b. The Address. You can't change the
Country/Region. c. The Email address of your organization's contact (optional). d. The
Phone number of your organization's contact (optional). e. When you finish updating the
information, select Save.
5. To change your registration number (optional), in the Other details section, select Update
registration. In the Add your registration number panel, select Edit. Enter your

--- Page 1633 of 2193 ---
organization's registration number, then select Save.
７ Note
You can't change your organization's name without assistance. Complete this form , then
contact support to get help with changing your organization's name.
Change your country/region
You can't change the country/region for your organization. The country/region where your
organization is headquartered determines which services are available to you, the taxes and
billing currency, and the location of the data center. To change your organization's
country/region, sign up for a new account, choose the desired country/region, and buy a new
subscription.
Change your contact preferences for communications
from Microsoft
You can choose the Microsoft 365 product-related communications that you want to receive.
For information about how to change your admin cell phone number and email address, see
Update your admin phone number and email address in Microsoft 365.
1. In the admin center, select the Settings icon in the header.
2. Select Update contact preferences.
3. Under Contact preferences, choose the types of product-related communications you want
to receive.
4. When you're done, select Save.
For Office 365 Enterprise, Microsoft 365 Business Standard, and Microsoft 365 Business Basic
customers: When you first signed up as an admin for Microsoft 365, depending on the
country/region of the users in your organization, they might be automatically signed up to
receive product-related communications.
Change organization settings for Cloud PCs
By default, new Cloud PCs are created with the Windows 11 operating system and the Standard
User account type. To change these default settings, use the following steps.

--- Page 1634 of 2193 ---
1. In the Microsoft 365 admin center, in the Navigation menu, go to the Settings > Org
settings page.
2. On the Services tab, select Windows 365.
3. Select your preferred operating system and account type, then select Save.
Organization settings only apply to newly created Cloud PCs. When these settings are changed,
they don't change the OS or account type of existing Cloud PCs.
Related content
Update your Microsoft 365 admin phone number and email address (article)
Send email from a different address in Outlook.com (article)
Change a user name and email address (article)
Configure email forwarding in Microsoft 365 (article)
Last updated on 04/29/2026

--- Page 1635 of 2193 ---
Manage people data and related
experiences from the Microsoft 365
admin center
The People settings section in the Microsoft 365 admin center is a unified single location for IT
admins to manage all people data and experiences related settings in their organization.
How to access the People settings section
1. Sign in to the Microsoft 365 admin center with an account that has the necessary admin
role.
2. In the left navigation pane, go to Settings and select Org settings.
3. On the Org settings page, find the Services tab (the list of service-specific settings).
4. Select People settings from the list of services.
Note: To view or modify People settings, you must be a Global Administrator or have the People
Administrator role in Microsoft 365 (About admin roles in the Microsoft 365 admin center -
Microsoft 365 admin | Microsoft Learn). The People Administrator role is a specialized admin role
that allows managing people-centric features (like updating profile card settings, pronouns, and
name pronunciations) without granting full global admin permissions. Global Readers can view
these settings (read-only).
） Important
Microsoft recommends that you use roles with the fewest permissions. Using lower
permissioned accounts helps improve security for your organization. Global Administrator is
a highly privileged role that should be limited to emergency scenarios when you can't use an
existing role. To learn more, see About admin roles in the Microsoft 365 admin center.
To assign the People Administrator role to a user:
1. In the Microsoft 365 admin center, go to Roles > Role assignments.
2. Search for People Administrator in the list of roles, and select it.

--- Page 1636 of 2193 ---
3. In the role details pane, choose Assigned admins, then Add and select the user(s) you want
to assign.
4. Save your changes.
Once the role is assigned, that user can navigate to Settings > Org settings > People settings
and have full access to configure those settings (just like a Global Admin would).
The People settings section includes the settings for
Profile card enrichment and customization
Turn pronouns on or off for your organization
User name pronunciation in Teams
Last updated on 05/06/2026

--- Page 1637 of 2193 ---
Enriching and customizing your
organization's profile cards
08/05/2025
Profile cards in Microsoft 365 show key information about an organization’s employees. As
an admin, you can use the Microsoft 365 admin center to add certain properties to your
organization's profile cards. These settings are configured under People settings section in your
admin dashboard.
Before you begin
You must be a Global Administrator or a People Administrator to do the tasks in this article. For
more information, see About admin roles.
Properties in profile cards
Properties in profile cards map to attributes in the Microsoft 365 profile resource and can be
populated from various sources, including:
Microsoft Entra ID
Organizational data in Microsoft 365
Microsoft 365 Copilot connectors for people data
User-provided details
Read Build Microsoft 365 Copilot connectors for people data to learn how to ingest people
data from external source systems into Microsoft Graph.
Default properties
Some properties are shown by default on profile cards when data is available. Admins can't
hide these properties:
Name
Email
Chat
Work phone

--- Page 1638 of 2193 ---
Mobile
Work location
Company
Job title
Department
Business address
Optional properties
Admins can choose to show or hide certain properties on the profile cards. They're hidden by
default, but admins can configure their visibility by navigating to Settings > Org settings >
People settings > Profile card > Contact info in the Microsoft 365 admin center.
When enabled, these properties appear in the Contact tab of the profile cards in Microsoft 365
Copilot app . They're visible to users viewing their own profile and when viewing the profiles
of others.
Division
Role
Employee number
Employee type
Cost center
User principal name
Alias
Fax
Street address
State
Postal code
After an admin changes the visibility of these properties, it can take up to 24 hours for changes
to be reflected on profile cards.

--- Page 1639 of 2193 ---
７ Note
If enabled, street address, state, and postal code are shown under the Business address
attribute on the cards.
７ Note
Hiding a property removes it from profile cards but doesn't delete the underlying data
from Microsoft 365 profiles or stop the property from appearing in other Microsoft 365
experiences. To permanently delete the data, admins need to remove it from the source
system.
How to find the source of a property?
Users can learn the source of each property on their profile cards by exporting their profile
card data . The export shows source IDs for each property, indicating the system the data
comes from. Learn what each source ID represents
If a source ID doesn't have a known mapping, the data comes from a third-party source. In this
case, users should contact their tenant admin to identify the system. Admins can then match
the source ID with a connector ID in Microsoft 365 admin center to find the data source.
How can users edit their profile info?
Users may want to edit certain organization-managed information shown on their profile card
—for example if the property is incorrect or out of date. As above, users should find the source
ID of the property and share it with their admin. Admins can then update the info in the source
system.
Related content
Manage people data and related experiences from the Microsoft admin center (article)
Build Microsoft 365 Copilot connectors for people data (article)
Microsoft 365 Copilot connectors for people data (article)

--- Page 1640 of 2193 ---
Update your Microsoft 365 admin phone
number and email address
This article describes how to update the phone number and email address for yourself as an
administrator in Microsoft 365.
If you're looking for information about how to change your company's name, address,
phone number, or technical contact information, see Change your organization's address,
technical contact email, and other information.
For more information about changing user contact information or removing former users,
see the Related content section.
Update your phone number
1. Go to the Microsoft 365 admin center and sign in.
2. Go to Users > Active users.
3. Select your admin account and choose Manage contact information under Contact
information.
4. Update your phone number and when you're finished, select Save changes.
Update your email address
1. Go to the Microsoft 365 admin center and sign in.
2. Go to Users > Active users.
3. Select your admin account and choose Manage username and email under Username
and email.
4. Update your email address and when you're finished, select Save changes.
Billing questions?
For answers to billing questions, see:
Change your billing addresses for Microsoft 365 for business
Manage payment methods

--- Page 1641 of 2193 ---
Related content
Change a user name and email address
Remove a former user
Access and back up a former user's data
Get support for Microsoft 365 for business
Manage user authentication methods for Microsoft Entra multifactor authentication
Last updated on 12/01/2025

--- Page 1642 of 2193 ---
Add custom tiles to the app launcher
You can add your own custom tiles to Apps that point to SharePoint sites, external sites, legacy
apps, and more. The custom tile appears under the Apps section in Microsoft 365. Once your
users launch the app, the app is added automatically to the list of app launcher apps for access.
Adding apps to the app launcher makes it easy to find the relevant sites, apps, and resources to
do your job.
７ Note
Adding apps to the app launcher capability is currently unavailable in the Microsoft 365
Copilot App.
Add a custom tile for Apps
1. Sign in to the Microsoft 365 admin center .
2. From the left navigation bar, select ... Show all, and then select Settings to expand it.
3. Under Settings, select Org Settings .
4. In the Org Settings page, select the Organization profile tab, and then select Custom tiles
for Apps.
5. In the Custom tiles for Apps pane, select + Add a custom tile.
6. In the Add a custom tile pane:
a. Enter a name for the new tile in the Tile name field. This name is the name that appears
on the My apps page and app launcher.
b. Enter a URL of the website for the new tile in the URL of website field. This URL is the
location where you want your users to go when they select the tile on the app launcher.
Use HTTPS in the URL.
 Tip
If you're creating a tile for a SharePoint site, navigate to that site, copy the URL, and
paste it here. The URL of your default team site looks like

--- Page 1643 of 2193 ---
https://<company_name>.sharepoint.com.
c. Enter a URL of the image for the new tile in the Image URL field. This image appears on
the My apps page and app launcher.
 Tip
The image should be 60x60 pixels and be available to everyone in your organization
without requiring authentication.
d. Enter a description for the new tile in the Description field. The description is displayed
when you select the tile on the My apps page and select App details.
e. Select Save to finish creating the custom tile.
Your custom tile appears for your users within 24 hours in the app launcher on the All tab and in
Microsoft 365 Apps.
７ Note
If you don't see the custom tile created in the previous steps, make sure you have an
Exchange Online mailbox assigned to you and that your mailbox has been signed into at
least once. These steps are required for custom tiles in Microsoft 365.
Edit or delete a custom tile
To edit an existing custom tile, follow these steps:
1. Sign in to the Microsoft 365 admin center .
2. From the left navigation bar, select ... Show all, and then select Settings to expand it.
3. Under Settings, select Org Settings .
4. In the Org Settings page, select the Organization profile tab, and then select Custom tiles
for Apps.
5. In the Custom tiles for Apps pane, find the custom tile you want to edit or delete, select the
horizontal ellipsis (...) next to the custom tile, and then select Edit custom tile.

--- Page 1644 of 2193 ---
6. In the Edit custom tile pane, update the Tile name, URL of website, URL of tile image, or
Description for the custom tile as needed.
7. Select Save.
To delete an existing custom tile, follow these steps:
1. Sign in to the Microsoft 365 admin center .
2. From the left navigation bar, select ... Show all, and then select Settings to expand it.
3. Under Settings, select Org Settings .
4. In the Org Settings page, select the Organization profile tab, and then select Custom tiles
for Apps.
5. In the Custom tiles for Apps pane, find the custom tile you want to edit or delete, select the
horizontal ellipsis (...) next to the custom tile, and then select Delete custom tile.
6. In the Delete custom tile? window, select Delete.
Next steps
To customize the look and feel of Microsoft 365 to match your organization's brand, see
Customize the Microsoft 365 theme.
Related content
Pin apps to your users' app launcher.
Upgrade your Microsoft 365 for business users to the latest version.
Manage add-ins in the admin center.
Last updated on 05/06/2026

--- Page 1645 of 2193 ---
Pin apps to your users' app launcher
Use the controls in the Microsoft Entra admin center to pin up to three apps to Microsoft365.com
and the app launcher for all the users in your organization. You can also organize groups of
applications. Any app you add can later be unpinned by the user at any time. To pin an app for
your users, you must be a Cloud application administrator or Application administrator in
Microsoft Entra ID. For more information about admin roles, see Microsoft Entra built-in roles and
admin roles in Microsoft 365.
For more information about the app launcher and Microsoft365.com, see meet the app
launcher and updates to office.com and the-Office 365 app launcher blog article.
Use the Microsoft Entra admin center to pin apps
７ Note
Microsoft 365 productivity apps are excluded from this list since they're already displayed in
the App launcher.
1. Go to the Microsoft 365 admin center at https://admin.cloud.microsoft .
2. In the left nav, choose Show all. Under Admin centers, choose Identity.
3. In Microsoft Entra admin center on the left nav, select Enterprise Apps.
4. Next, choose App launchers, and then choose Settings.
5. In the Microsoft 365 settings section, choose Add application.
6. Choose the applications you want to pin to the users' app launcher, and then choose Add.
Pin a custom app
７ Note
The user interface indicates if you need to purchase more Microsoft Entra ID licenses to use
this feature. For more information, see Microsoft Entra pricing .
1. Go to the Microsoft 365 admin center at https://admin.cloud.microsoft .
2. In the left nav, choose Show all. Under Admin centers, choose Identity.
3. In Microsoft Entra admin center on the left nav, select Enterprise apps.

--- Page 1646 of 2193 ---
4. On All applications, select an existing application or choose New application.
5. If you choose an existing application, follow the steps to add users and groups, provision
users, and secure access.
6. If you choose a new application, follow the steps to create the new application. Then, follow
the steps to add users and groups, provision users, and secure access.
Create application collections
You can also create application collections for the users in your organization. For instructions, see
Create collections on the My Apps portal.
Last updated on 05/04/2026

--- Page 1647 of 2193 ---
Upgrade your Microsoft 365 for business
users to the latest apps
Article • 04/08/2025
Get ready to upgrade to Microsoft 365
As an admin, you control what version of the Microsoft 365 productivity apps people in your
organization can install. We highly recommend that you help users in your organization
running older versions such as Office 2013 or Office 2016 upgrade to the latest version of the
apps in Microsoft 365 to take advantage of security and productivity improvements.
Is this the right topic for you?
If you're the admin responsible for the Microsoft 365 for business subscription in your
organization, you're in the right place. Admins are typically responsible for tasks like managing
users, resetting passwords, managing Office installs and adding or removing licenses.
If you're not an admin and you have a Microsoft 365 Family subscription, see How do I
upgrade Office for information about upgrading your older, home use version of Office.
Upgrade steps
The steps below will guide you through the process of upgrading your users to the latest
Microsoft 365 desktop apps. We recommend you read through these steps before beginning
the upgrade process.
Step 1 - Check system requirements
Check the system requirements to make sure your devices are compatible with the latest
version of Office. For example, newer versions of the apps in Microsoft 365 can't be installed on
computers running Windows XP or Windows Vista.
 Tip
If you have users in your organization running older versions of Windows on their PCs or
laptops, we recommend upgrading to the latest version of Windows. Windows 7 has
reached end of support. Read Support for Windows 7 ends in January 2020 for more
info.

--- Page 1648 of 2193 ---
Check out the Windows 11 system requirements to see if you can upgrade their operating
systems.
Check application compatibility
To ensure a successful upgrade, we recommend identifying your applications--including VBA
scripts, macros, third-party add-ins, and complex documents and spreadsheets--and assessing
their compatibility with the latest version of Microsoft 365.
For example, if you're using third-party add-ins with your current install, contact the
manufacture to make sure they're compatible with the latest version of Microsoft 365.
Step 2 - Check your existing subscription plan
Some Microsoft 365 plans don't include the full desktop versions of the apps and the steps to
upgrade are different if your plan doesn't include desktop version of the apps.
Not sure which subscription plan you have? See What Microsoft 365 for business subscription
do I have?
If your existing plan includes the Microsoft 365 apps, move on to Step 3 - Uninstall Office.
If your existing plan doesn't include the Microsoft 365 apps, then select from the options
below:
Upgrade options for plans that don't include the apps in
Microsoft 365
Option 1: Switch subscriptions
Switch to a subscription that includes the Microsoft 365 productivity apps. See Switch to a
different Microsoft 365 for business plan.
Option 2: Buy individual, one-time purchases of Office, or buy Office through a volume
license
Buy an individual, one-time purchase of Microsoft 365. See Microsoft 365 Family &
Business
OR
Buy multiple copies of Office through a volume license. See, Compare suites available
through volume licensing .

--- Page 1649 of 2193 ---
Step 3 - Uninstall Office
Before installing the latest version of Microsoft 365, we recommend you uninstall all older
versions of the Office app. However, if you change your mind about upgrading, note the
following instances where you won't be able to reinstall the Office app after uninstalling it.
We recommend if you have third-party add-ins, contact the manufacturer to see if there's an
update that will work with the latest version of Microsoft 365.
 Tip
If you run into issues while uninstalling, you can use the Microsoft Support and Recovery
Assistant tool to help you remove Office: Download and run the Microsoft Support and
Recovery Assistant .
Select the version of Office you want to uninstall
From a PC
From a Mac
Known issues trying to reinstall older versions of after an
uninstall
Office through a volume license If you no longer have access to the source files of these
volume license versions, you won't be able to reinstall it.
Office pre-installed on your computer If you no longer have a disk or product key, you won't
be able to reinstall it.
Non-supported subscriptions If your copy was obtained through discontinued subscriptions,
such as Office 365 Small Business Premium or Office 365 Mid-size Business, you won't be able
to install an older version unless you have the product key that came with your subscription.
If you'd prefer to install your older version side-by-side with the latest version, you can see a
list of versions where this is supported in, Install and use different versions of Office on the
same PC . A side-by-side installation might be the right choice for you, if for example, you've
installed third-party add-ins you're using with your older version and you're not yet sure
they're compatible with the latest version.
Step 4 - Assign licenses to users

--- Page 1650 of 2193 ---
If you haven't already done so, assign licenses to any users in your organization who need to
install the latest version of Microsoft 365. See Assign licenses to users in Microsoft 365 for
business.
Step 5 - Install Microsoft 365 apps
After you've verified the users you want to upgrade all have licenses, the final step is to have
them install the apps in Microsoft 365. See Download and install or reinstall Microsoft 365 or
Office 2021 on a PC or Mac .
 Tip
If you don't want your users installing Office themselves, see Manage Microsoft 365
installation options in the Microsoft 365 admin center. You can use the Deployment Tool
to download apps to your local network and then deploy using the software deployment
method you typically use.
Office 2010 reaches end-of-support
Office 2010 reached its end of support on October 13, 2020. Microsoft will no longer provide
the following:
Technical support for issues
Bug fixes for issues that are discovered
Security fixes for vulnerabilities that are discovered
See Office 2010 end of support roadmap for more information.

--- Page 1651 of 2193 ---
Organizational messages in the Microsoft
365 admin center
By using organizational messages in the Microsoft 365 admin center, you can connect with your
organization through customized, in-product messages. Use organizational messages to
streamline communication with users across Microsoft products. These messages enhance in-
product experiences and support remote and hybrid work scenarios by sharing:
Educational content.
Information about Microsoft 365 service or license availability.
Updates on organizational activities.
） Important
Organizational Messages now includes two powerful new capabilities available for General
Availability (GA).
Email Messages: Admins can now deliver premade templatized messages by email, joining
existing surfaces like Windows Spotlight, Task Bar, Notification Center, and Teams Popovers.
Usage: Admins can now target organizational messages based on user activity. For GA there
are 2 pre-defined Action Segments available for Inactive Copilot Users and Inactive Copilot
Users in Teams.
As we roll out GA for these features, we're excited to see how they will enhance
communication and help drive Copilot adoption within your organization. We're committed
to continuously improving these capabilities based on your feedback and usage.
Organizational messages capabilities
You can centrally manage organizational messages in the Microsoft 365 admin center.
With organizational messages, you can:
Send branded messages where users already work — Reach employees on the Windows
lock screen, taskbar, notification center, in Microsoft Teams, or by email.

--- Page 1652 of 2193 ---
Use ready-made templates or write your own — Choose from pre-made Microsoft
templates, such as "Welcome to Copilot," and add your logo and URL. Or create fully
custom messages from scratch.
Target the right audience — Deliver messages to specific Microsoft Entra groups, or use
advanced targeting by department, location, company, or usage behavior, such as users
who haven't used copilot recently. For more information on Microsoft Entra user groups
and advanced targeting options see, Group Level Aggregate-based targeting
Control timing and frequency — Schedule start and end dates, set how often a message
reappears, or send a one-time urgent message immediately.
Require approval for custom messages — Route custom messages through an approval
workflow before they reach users.
Track message performance — Review insights data for your messages including; three
time-series data charts showing daily changes in the total Messages seen, Total Clicks and
Clickthrough rate for your messages. See, Review activity reports section in this article for
more details.
Requirements
Before working with organizational messages, make sure the following requirements are met:
Tenant policies - (For Windows) To use organizational messages, configure the appropriate
tenant policies. For more information on what policies are required, see the Set tenant
policies section in this article.
Authors - Assign the Organizational Messages Writer role in the Microsoft 365 admin
center to anyone in your organization who wants to create messages. To access the
organizational messages experiences, you need the Organizational Messages Writer
Microsoft Entra role.
Approvers - Assign the Organizational Messages Approver admin role in the Microsoft 365
admin center to anyone in your organization who is a designated responsible party for
approving customized messages.
Message recipients - Recipients must have access to the Microsoft products the messages
are configured for delivery. However, end users aren't required to have any Microsoft Entra
roles to receive organizational messages. For example, any message configured to be
delivered to a Windows channel, like Windows Spotlight, requires that recipients use
Windows 11 Enterprise.

--- Page 1653 of 2193 ---
Devices - (For Windows) Only Microsoft Entra ID joined devices are supported. Microsoft
Entra (AD) hybrid joined devices aren't supported.
Firewall - (For Windows) To ensure users can communicate with organizational messages,
open the following endpoints:
fd.api.orgmsg.microsoft.com
ris.prod.api.personalization.ideas.microsoft.com
Requirements for advanced features
Advanced features are experiences in organizational messages that are restricted to certain
tenants. The currently available advanced features for organizational messages are:
Fully customized message creation.
Advanced targeting by group level aggregates, including Department, Location, Company,
and Usage.
Admins and users can access these advanced features for organizational messages when the
tenant has at least one of the following licenses:
Microsoft 365 E3, or E5 license.
Office 365 E3 or Office 365 E5 license.
Windows Enterprise E3 or E5 license.
Access the Organizational messages experience
You can access Organizational messages in the Microsoft 365 admin center, where you can create
and manage messages, review message performance.
Familiarize yourself with these three experiences within the organizational messages centralized
experience:
Manage messages - A centralized area where you and your team can view and manage
organizational messages created across supported portals. This area includes usage reports
and access to the Copilot advanced deployment guide within the Microsoft 365 admin
center.
From Manage messages, your team can perform the following actions on messages:
Filter based on message status, location, objective, or message name.
Review existing message details such as language and targeting.
Understand aggregate performance data per message.

--- Page 1654 of 2193 ---
Cancel, delete, approve, and copy messages.
Run approval workflows.
Create a message - A guided creation experience where authors can write fully customized
or template-based messages.
Review activity - A reporting view that enables administrators to monitor delivery and
performance metrics for organizational messages, including messages that are currently
being delivered or were delivered in the past.

Steps to access organizational messages
1. Sign in to the Microsoft 365 admin center .
2. From the left navigation bar, select ... Show all, and then select Reports to expand it.
3. Under Reports, select Organizational messages .
4. In the Organizational messages page, you can access the three experiences:
Manage messages.
Create a message.
Review activity.
Create a new message

--- Page 1655 of 2193 ---
If you have the Organizational Messages Writer Microsoft Entra role, you can create a new
organizational message.
７ Note
This video provides an overview of how to use Organizational messages to help increase
Microsoft 365 Copilot adoption and how to create a new message.
https://learn-video.azurefd.net/vod/player?id=e42cf90c-23c1-436d-a546-
368ad1cac0c3&locale=en-us&embedUrl=%2Fmicrosoft-
365%2Fadmin%2Fmisc%2Forganizational-messages-microsoft-365
To create a new message, follow these steps:
1. Under the Top actions section of the Organizational messages page, select Create a
message.
2. In the Create a message wizard, step through the wizard to create a new message. The
wizard includes the following steps:
Objective: Select the nature or purpose of your new message. Options include
Adoption, onboarding, Sustainability and Tech updates.
Location: When you create an organizational message, you can choose where your
message is displayed to users. Supported locations include Windows Spotlight, the
taskbar, Notification Center, Microsoft Teams and email.
Email Messages: Eight pre-made email templates are available:
Two welcome messages for Welcome to Copilot and Welcome to Copilot Chat.
Six templates from the Great M365 Copilot Journey that highlight features and
best practices to help drive Copilot onboarding and adoption. Email functionality is
currently limited to the eight provided pre-made templates. The email templates
aren't customizable.
Template: Choose the format of the message. You can either use a pre-made message
from Microsoft or create your own. For more information, on custom messages, see
the section Choose a pre-made message or custom message in this article.
Customize: Add customization to the message including full text and custom URLs.
Recipients: Set the groups within your organization that should receive the message.
You can also target by Companies, Departments, Locations, and Usage if the tenant is

--- Page 1656 of 2193 ---
enabled for advanced features.
Usage: Two predefined areas are available for Copilot usage:
Inactive Copilot users: all users with a Microsoft 365 Copilot license that have
not used Copilot in the prior 28 days.
Inactive Copilot users in Teams: all users with a Microsoft 365 Copilot license
that have not used Copilot in Teams in the prior 30 days. Usage is available for
the existing surfaces of Windows Spotlight, Taskbar, Notification Center, and
Microsoft Teams notifications. For more information, see the section Enabling
advanced targeting of organizational messages in this article.
７ Note
The available targeting options depend on the message location you select. For
example, Windows channels support recipient selection via Microsoft Entra
groups and advanced targeting options based on Group Level Aggregates, while
Teams notification channels only support recipient selection via Microsoft Entra
groups.
Schedule: Configure the start date, end date, and frequency when the message is sent
to users. If the user doesn't select the message when the message is displayed, or
dismisses the message by selecting X, then the message reappears to the user based
on the specified frequency. If the user does select the message, the message doesn't
reappear again for a year as long as it isn't expired.
Finish: Review the message before scheduling or sending for approval by your
organization's approvers.
Throughout the Create a message wizard, you can select Save and close to save the message as
a draft and come back to it later. Once saved, a draft message has the status of Draft. You can
see draft messages in the Manage messages section of the Organizational messages page. For
information on how to continue editing a draft message, see the section Modify a draft message
in this article.
Choose a pre-made message or custom message
Two primary forms of message creation are enabled in this experience:
Pre-made messages - Pre-made messages, also known as template-based messages, are a
method of selecting and customizing content that Microsoft partially creates for general

--- Page 1657 of 2193 ---
purpose use. For example, Microsoft might provide various generic messages that your
team can pick. You can then customize the message by adding your logo and URL.
Create your own messages - Create your own messages, also known as fully customized
creation messages, is an open-ended format of entering in content for messages. This
customization allows your team to make messages that include your company name or
other specifics that are unique to your company, group, or team. For example, an author
can select Create your own and type all of the words of the message themselves.
７ Note
The Create your own option is enabled if your organization has the required licenses
as described in the Requirements for advanced features section in this article.
Enabling advanced targeting of organizational messages
If your tenant has the appropriate licenses as described in the Requirements for advanced
features section, at the Recipients step and Select message recipients page of the Create a
message wizard, the following options are available for a Target audience :
Companies.
Departments.
Locations.
Usage.
The advanced targeting options of Companies, Departments, Locations, and Usage in the
Recipients step of the Create a message wizard are made possible by the group-level aggregates
settings associated with Adoption Score. For more information, see Group Level Aggregates in
Adoption Score.
７ Note
If the Target audience is Usage, then it is not required to enable advanced targeting of
organizational messages.
To enable advanced targeting of organizational messages, follow these steps:
1. Sign in to the Microsoft 365 admin center .

--- Page 1658 of 2193 ---
2. From the left navigation bar, select ... Show all, and then select Settings to expand it.
3. Under Settings, select Org settings.
4. In the Org settings page, make sure Services is selected and then select Adoption Score.
5. In the Adoption Score pane, make sure Insight calculations and display is selected.
6. Under Group data filtering, select Turn on group-level insights and then select Save.
7. Under Group data filtering, select Manage group-level filtering.
8. In the Manage group-level filtering pane, select the Organizational attributes checkbox,
and then Turn on selected filters
Manage messages
From the Manage messages area, you can perform the following actions on messages:
Modify a draft message
Approve or reject a pending message
Withdraw a rejected message
Copy an existing organizational message
Urgent delivery of organizational messages
Delayed delivery of organizational messages
Modify a draft message
If you have the Organizational Messages Writer Microsoft Entra role, you can edit or complete a
saved draft message.
To edit or complete a draft message, follow these steps:
1. Under the Top actions section of the Organizational messages page, next to Filter select
Status, and then select Draft.
2. Select the message you want to edit.
3. In the Message details pane, select Modify.
4. In the Create a message wizard, step through the wizard to edit or complete the draft
message.

--- Page 1659 of 2193 ---
Approve or reject a pending message
Selecting a pre-made message doesn't require any approval before the message can be delivered
to end users. However, approvers must approve custom messages before the system delivers
them to users. Approvers can't approve or reject a message that they created.
Rejecting a message marks the message state as Rejected. The author can review the message
and resubmit it after making the requested changes. For more information, see the section
Withdraw a rejected message in this article.
If approvers don't approve or reject a message by the set End date of the message, the system
automatically rejects the message. This policy ensures the minimum duration of delivery of
messages as expected by authors.
If you have the Organizational Messages Approver Microsoft Entra role, you can review messages
that are in the Pending approval state. You can then either approve or reject the messages. To
approve or reject a Pending approval message, follow these steps:
1. Under the Top actions section of the Organizational messages page, next to Filter select
Status and then select Pending approval.
2. Select the message you want to review.
3. In the Message details pane, review the message details:
To approve the message, select Approve. You can also optionally add a comment
before approving the message.
To reject the message, add a comment in the text field, and then select Reject. You
must enter a comment before rejecting the message.
Withdraw a rejected message
When approvers reject a message, the message state changes to Rejected. However, if you have
the Organizational Messages Writer Microsoft Entra role, you can withdraw a rejected message.
By withdrawing a rejected message, you can modify the message to address the approver's
concerns before resubmitting it for approval. When you withdraw a rejected message, its status
changes from Rejected to Draft.
To withdraw a rejected message, follow these steps:
1. Under the Top actions section of the Organizational messages page, next to Filter select
Status and then select Rejected.

--- Page 1660 of 2193 ---
⋮
2. Next to the rejected message that you want to withdraw, select the ellipses menu, and
then select Withdraw. The state of the rejected message changes to Draft.
3. Select the Draft message you just withdrew.
4. In the Message details pane, select Modify.
5. The Create a message wizard opens where you can edit the message. When you finish
editing, resubmit the message for approval.
Copy an existing organizational message
1. Under the Manage messages section of the Organizational messages page, next to the
⋮
message that you want to copy, select the ellipses menu, and then select Copy.
2. The Create a message wizard opens with elements from the previous message.
3. Step through the Create a message wizard and make any necessary edits.
７ Note
As long as the Location of the copied message remains the same, images from the
copied message are automatically copied to the new message. However, you can
override that image by uploading a new image.
Pre-made messages aren't available for all selections in the Objective step. However,
all objectives have the Create your own messages format available for full
customization authoring.
Urgent delivery
For some time-sensitive communications, admins and other communicators might need to send
a message quickly. Admins might need to quickly broadcast an event to some users so they can
be informed. For example:
An event is occurring on a corporate campus.
A service outage begins.
To support communications in such events, organizational messages include an urgent delivery
feature. The message creation experience for an urgent message is similar to the flow for creating
other messages with these exceptions:

--- Page 1661 of 2193 ---
The only locations available are Windows 11 Taskbar and Notifications area.
Only Microsoft Entra group targeting is supported.
At the Schedule step of the Create a message wizard, Start date, End date, and Frequency
configurations aren't available since urgent messages are sent as soon as possible and only
once.
To create an urgent message, follow these steps:
1. Under the Top actions section of the Organizational messages page, select Send urgent
message.

2. In the Create a message wizard, step through the wizard to create a new urgent message.
Delayed delivery of organizational messages
Organizational messages deliver messages to end users within the time windows that admins
configure through the Microsoft 365 admin center. However, system or user device conditions
might prevent messages from being delivered as expected. For example, urgent messages don't
reach devices that are disconnected from the internet. In these situations, Microsoft 365
continues trying to deliver messages when possible. If a device is offline while an urgent message
is being delivered, the system caches the message for up to 24 hours. Windows attempts to show
the message to the user again once the device is back online.
７ Note
To support tenant-based targeting, the organizational messages system might take up to 24
to 48 hours to initialize for tenants where a message wasn't scheduled in the past 30 days.
Review activity
In the Organizational messages page of the Microsoft 365 admin center, the table under the
Manage messages section includes basic aggregate insights data for your messages. For
example:

--- Page 1662 of 2193 ---
Total messages seen.
Total clicks.
Clickthrough rate.
However, the Review activity experience provides additional advanced insights. In the Review
activity experience, you can review insights data for your messages by using the following
capabilities:
Filtering on time range, status, and other aspects.
Graphing of selected date range.
Data export to CSV.
To access the Review activity experience, follow these steps:
1. If you're not at the Organizational messages page of the Microsoft 365 admin center,
follow the steps in Access the organizational messages experience to get there.
2. Under the Top actions section of the Organizational messages page, select Review activity.
3. The Review activity page opens where you can review insights data for your messages
including:
Three time-series data charts showing daily changes in the total Messages seen. Total
Messages seen is also known as impressions.
Total Clicks.
Clickthrough rate for your messages.
Export organizational message performance data
You can export message data to a CSV file if you want to work with your tenant's message
performance data. To export message performance data to CSV, follow these steps:
1. If you're not already signed in to the Microsoft 365 admin center and navigated to the
Review activity page, follow the steps in Review activity to get there.
2. In the Review message activity page, next to Filters:, set the filters as desired. For example,
set the time range for the data you're interested in retrieving.
3. Select Export to CSV and then save the CSV file locally.
Set tenant policies

--- Page 1663 of 2193 ---
Set tenant policies only if you need to deliver messages to Windows surfaces such as Windows
Spotlight, Windows Notification Center, and Windows Taskbar. You don't need to set tenant
policies for sending messages to Teams Teaching notifications or to Email.
Certain policies can block the delivery of organizational messages. For example, policies in
Microsoft Intune . This section describes both how to set policies to allow organizational
messages and how to verify that there are no policies that block organizational messages.
Create a policy that allows organizational messages in
Microsoft Intune
To enable organizational messages through a policy in Microsoft Intune, follow these steps:
1. Sign in to the Microsoft Intune admin center .
2. In the Home screen, select Devices in the left pane.
3. In the Devices | Overview screen, expand Manage devices, and then select Configuration.
4. In the Devices | Configuration screen:
a. At the top, make sure Policies is selected.
b. Select the + Create drop down menu and then select New Policy.
5. In the Create a profile pane:
a. Under Platform, select Windows 10 and later.
b. Under Profile type, select Settings catalog.
c. Select Create.
6. The Create profile wizard opens. In the Basics page, enter a name and description for the
new policy, such as Organizational Messages Policy, and then select Next.
7. In the Configuration settings page, select + Add settings.
8. In the Settings picker pane:
a. Under Browse by category, select Experience from the list of categories.
b. When the Settings name section appears:
i. Select the following two settings:

--- Page 1664 of 2193 ---
Enable delivery of organizational messages (User)
Disable Cloud Optimized Content.
i. Expand Allow Windows Spotlight (User) and then select the following settings under
Allow Windows Spotlight (User):
Allow Windows Spotlight on Action Center (User).
Allow Windows Tips.
Configure Windows Spotlight on Lock Screen (User).
c. Close the Settings picker pane by selecting the X in the top right corner.
9. In the Configuration settings page:
a. Set all of the following settings to Allow:
Enable delivery of organizational messages (User).
Allow Windows Spotlight (User).
Allow Windows Spotlight on Action Center (User).
Allow Windows Tips.
b. Make sure Disable Cloud Optimized Content is set to Disabled.
c. Make sure Configure Windows Spotlight on Lock Screen (User) is set to one of the
following settings:
Windows spotlight enabled.
Windows spotlight is always enabled, the user cannot disable it.
d. Select Next.
10. In the Scope tags page, select the Next button.
７ Note
Scope tags are optional. If you need to specify a custom scope tag, add it on this page.
For more information about scope tags, see Use role-based access control and scope
tags for distributed IT.
11. In the Assignments page, select the groups that should be targeted by this policy and then
select Next. Include any users or devices that might receive organizational messages.

--- Page 1665 of 2193 ---
12. In the Review + create page, review the policy settings to make sure they're correct, and
then select Create.
７ Note
If you recently onboarded your tenant to Microsoft Entra ID, it can take 36 to 64 hours
before you can use the organizational messages features.
Verify no device restriction policies block organizational
messages in Microsoft Intune
After creating a policy in Microsoft Intune to allow organizational messages, verify that no device
restriction policies block any of the following settings:
Windows Spotlight.
Windows Spotlight on lock screen.
Windows Tips.
Windows Spotlight in action center.
Windows Spotlight personalization.
To check if any policies block these settings, follow these steps:
1. Sign in to the Microsoft Intune admin center .
2. In the Home screen, select Devices in the left pane.
3. In the Devices | Overview screen, expand Manage devices, and then select Configuration.
4. In the Devices | Configuration screen, select Add filters.
5. In the Add filters dropdown menu, select Policy type, select Device restrictions, and then
select Apply.
6. All policies of the type Device restrictions appear under Policy name.
7. Select each of the Device restrictions policies. For each policy, make sure that Windows
Spotlight isn't listed under Configuration settings.
8. If Windows Spotlight appears under Configuration settings, expand Windows Spotlight
and ensure that none of the following settings are set to Block:
Windows Spotlight.

--- Page 1666 of 2193 ---
Windows Spotlight on lock screen.
Windows Tips.
Windows Spotlight in action center.
Windows Spotlight personalization.
9. If any of these settings are set to Block, select Edit next to Configuration settings.
10. In the Device restrictions page, expand Windows Spotlight. You might need to scroll down
the list to find Windows Spotlight.
11. Change any of the following policies from Block to Not configured:
Windows Spotlight.
Windows Spotlight on lock screen.
Windows Tips.
Windows Spotlight in action center.
Windows Spotlight personalization.
12. Select Review + save and then select Save.
Frequently asked questions about organizational
messages (FAQ)
For frequently asked questions about organizational messages, see Organizational Messages in
Microsoft 365 FAQ.
Last updated on 05/11/2026

--- Page 1667 of 2193 ---
Organizational messages in Microsoft
365 FAQ
This article provides answers to frequently asked questions that administrator might have about
organizational messages in Microsoft 365. For more information about organizational messages
in Microsoft 365, see Organizational messages in the Microsoft 365 admin center.
Can you tell me more about delivery
expectations for these messages?
For non-urgent messages, after the Organizational Messages platform schedules your message, it
takes a few hours before the message is eligible to be delivered to end user devices. For example,
if you set the Start Date to be now or today, you should expect a few hours before any end user
devices in your testing tenant receive the message payload.
Windows delivers messages on a pull model, so the system buffers messages on a set period for
each of the channels. Since devices might be configured to request content at different times,
messages might take 24 or more hours before the message is received and rendered.
Once your message is actively delivering for over 24 hours, you can return to the Manage
messages experience to review the latest delivery data for your message.
For urgent messages, after the Organizational Messages platform schedules your message, the
platform tries to send the message as soon as possible. However, as noted earlier, this process is
a best-effort mechanism subject to various conditions, with no guaranteed delivery times.
７ Note
For Windows Spotlight messages, users who select a message on the Windows lock screen
don't see it again for 12 months. Users who don't select the message might see it multiple
times.
My team created organizational messages
through other methods outside of the

--- Page 1668 of 2193 ---
Microsoft 365 admin center. For example,
Microsoft Intune, Adoption Score, and
Usage reports. How do they work with
these messages?
The Organizational messages centralized experience is the one-stop-shop for organizational
messages. You should be able to see and manage your other messages from the organizational
messages centralized experience, regardless of where they were created.
７ Note
Adoption Score organizational messages on Office or Outlook channels aren't visible in the
centralized experience.
How do admins get the required permissions?
Reach out to an admin with appropriate permissions and ask them to assign you the
Organizational Messages Writer or Organizational Message Approver Microsoft Entra role by
following these steps:
1. Sign in to the Microsoft 365 admin center .
2. From the left navigation bar, select ... Show all, and then select Users to expand it.
3. Under Users, select Active users.
4. In the Active users page, search for and then select the user you want to assign the role to.
5. In the user's details pane, select Manage roles under Roles.
6. In the Manage admin roles pane, select Admin center access, and then select Show all by
category.
7. Scroll down to the Other section.
8. In the Other section, select the checkbox next to Organizational Messages Writer and/or
Organizational Messages Approver, depending on which roles you want to assign.
9. Select Save changes.

--- Page 1669 of 2193 ---
Why do I need to update my Mobile Device
Management (MDM) policies?
The MDM policies listed in Set tenant policies control whether the service delivering the
messages can access each location where organizational messages could be delivered. Previously,
the configuration service providers (CSPs) only affected consumer scenarios and controlled
whether Microsoft messaging can be delivered. However, since you're using the same service, the
policies affect admin-created messages as well.
How can I get my MDM settings for
troubleshooting purposes?
1. Right-click on the Start menu and select Run.
2. In the Open: text box of the Run window, enter ms-settings:workplace, and then select OK.
3. In Accounts > Access work or school page of the Settings app, under Related settings,
select Export next to Export your management log files.
4. The exported management log files are saved at
C:\Users\Public\Documents\MDMDiagnostics.
How can I get my user and device ID for
troubleshooting purposes?
1. From the Start menu, launch the Feedback Hub app.
2. In the Feedback Hub app, select Settings in the bottom left-hand corner.
3. In the Settings page, navigate to the Device Information section. The Device ID and User
ID are listed in this section.
Where can I find more information on
configuration service provider (CSP) policies
related to Organizational Messages?
You can use the Experience CSP for policies related to organizational messages. For example:

--- Page 1670 of 2193 ---
AllowWindowsSpotlight.
AllowWindowsTips.
AllowWindowsSpotlightOnActionCenter.
DisableCloudOptimizedContent.
ConfigureWindowsSpotlightOnLockScreen.
AllowSpotlightCollection.
EnableOrganizationalMessages.
What do the different message states mean?
All messages have a state that indicates their creation or delivery status. For example:
Completed - The message successfully was delivered as defined by start and end dates.
Pending - The organizational messages service registered the message but it isn't delivered
yet. Certain details of the message might not be available while in Pending state.
Failed - The organizational messages service wasn't able to properly register the message.
The message needs to be copied to retry the process.
Canceled - An admin stopped and canceled the message. The cancellation could be either
prior or during the delivery of the message.
Active - Message is currently being delivered to your users.
Draft - Message isn't completed or submitted for scheduling and approval. Any tenant
writer can continue a draft and complete the message through the Create a message
wizard.
Scheduled - A message is properly authored and is awaiting delivery. At delivery time, the
message status changes to Active.
Rejected - A message was rejected after an approver reviewed it. Rejecting a message keeps
the message from proceeding to a Scheduled or Active state.
Pending approval - A message is awaiting review by an approver.
How does localization work in Organizational
Messages?
The following locales are supported:

--- Page 1671 of 2193 ---
en-US
de-DE
es-ES
fr-FR
it-IT
ja-JP
ko-KR
nl-NL
pl-PL
pt-BR
pt-PT
ru-RU
tr-TR
zh-Hans
zh-Hant
For pre-made messages, an Organizational Message is created for all of the listed locales. If the
Organizational Messages Writer selects "pre-made Message A" to send to end users, any end
user whose first preferred language matches one of the supported languages qualifies to receive
"pre-made Message A" in their first preferred language.
For custom messages, as long as it's one of the supported locales, the creation of an
Organizational Message is restricted to the Display language selected in the My Account >
Settings & Privacy setting in the Microsoft 365 admin center.
For example, an Organizational Messages Writer sets their Microsoft 365 admin center display
language to French. After the writer creates "Custom Message B", only end users with French as
their Windows display language in the Time & Language > Language & Region page of the
Windows Settings app receive "Custom Message B." "Custom Message B" isn't delivered to end
users whose Windows display language is any language other than French.
Locale fallback:
If the Organizational Messages Writer locale is outside of the supported listed locales, the
message isn't delivered to end users. To ensure delivery, verify that your locale maps to one of
the supported locales listed earlier. For example:
fr-CA falls back to fr-FR, and users with all French language locales receive the message.
lv-LV doesn't map to a supported locale, so users with the lv-LV locale don't receive the
message. Consider authoring the message in a supported locale instead.

--- Page 1672 of 2193 ---
Does Organizational Messages support
government environments?
No, government environments such as GCC or GCC-H aren't supported at this time.
Can we still author Get Started messages
created previously in Microsoft Intune?
You can view any Get Started messages that you created in the Organizational messages
experience within Microsoft Intune that aren't complete within the Microsoft 365 admin center
experience. However, new Get Started message creation aren't currently supported.
Are there any pre-made messages for
Windows Spotlight?
No pre-made Windows Spotlight messages are available.
Where are organizational messages delivered
in Windows 11?
Organizational messages deliver to the following Windows 11 locations:
Notifications area.
Taskbar.
Windows Spotlight.
How can we prevent messages from Microsoft
but still allow organizational messages?
To only show organizational messages, follow these steps:
1. Enable all of the policies described in Set Tenant Policies.
2. Sign in to the Microsoft 365 admin center .
3. From the left navigation bar, select ... Show all, and then select Reports to expand it.

--- Page 1673 of 2193 ---
4. Under Reports, select Organizational messages .
5. In the Organizational messages page, select the Settings gear icon in the top right corner.
6. In the Settings pane, deselect the option Allow Microsoft messages to display.
7. Select Save.
These steps ensure the Organizational messages platform sends only your organization's
messages to Windows surfaces.
How do licenses affect message customization?
The authoring experiences are automatically disabled if license requirements aren't met.
Windows custom messages require Windows E3 or E5, or Microsoft 365 E3, or E5.
Microsoft Teams custom messages require Office 365 E3 or Office 365 E5, or Microsoft 365
E3 or Microsoft 365 E5.
Pre-made messages might still be available without these licenses.
Last updated on 05/11/2026

--- Page 1674 of 2193 ---
Place a mailbox on litigation hold
You can place a mailbox on litigation hold to retain mailbox content, including deleted items
and the original versions of modified items. When you place a user mailbox on litigation hold,
content in the user's archive mailbox (if enabled) is also retained.
When you create a hold, you can specify a hold duration (also called a time-based hold) so that
deleted and modified items are retained for a specified period and then permanently deleted
from the mailbox. Or, you can retain content indefinitely (called an infinite hold) or until the
litigation hold is removed.
If you specify a hold duration period, it's calculated from the date a message is received or a
mailbox item is created.
Here's what happens when you create a litigation hold.
Items that are permanently deleted by the user are retained in the Recoverable Items
folder in the user's mailbox during the hold.
Items that are purged from the Recoverable Items folder by the user are retained during
the hold.
The storage quota for the Recoverable Items folder is increased from 30 GB to 110 GB.
Items in the user's primary and the archive mailboxes are retained
Assign an Exchange Online Plan 2 license
To place an Exchange Online mailbox on litigation hold, that mailbox must be assigned an
Exchange Online Plan 2 license. If a mailbox is assigned an Exchange Online Plan 1 license, you
must assign that mailbox a separate Exchange Online Archiving license to place it on hold.
Place a mailbox on litigation hold
1. Go to the Microsoft 365 admin center and sign in.
2. Select Users > Active users, and then select the user for whom you want to place on
litigation hold.
3. On the Properties flyout panel, select the Mail tab, and then under More actions, select
Manage litigation hold.

--- Page 1675 of 2193 ---

4. On the Manage litigation hold flyout page, select the Turn on litigation hold checkbox,
and then add the following optional information:
Hold duration (days): Use this box to create a time-based hold and specify how
long mailbox items are held when the mailbox is placed on Litigation hold. The
duration is calculated from the date a mailbox item is received or created. When the
hold duration expires for a specific item, that item is no longer preserved. If you
leave this box blank, items are preserved indefinitely or until the hold is removed.
Use days to specify the duration.
Note visible to the user: Use this box to inform the user their mailbox is on litigation
hold. The note appears on the Account Information page in the user's mailbox if
they're using Outlook 2010 or later. To access this page, users can select File in
Outlook.
Web page with more information for the user: Use this box to direct the user to a
website for more information about litigation hold. This URL appears on the
Account Information page in the user's mailbox if they're using Outlook 2010 or
later. To access this page, users can select File in Outlook.
5. Select Save changes on the Litigation hold flyout page to create the hold.
The system displays a banner saying it might take up to 240 minutes for the change to
take effect.
７ Note

--- Page 1676 of 2193 ---
After a litigation hold is enabled, the "created by" field reflects the original user who
enabled the hold, even when the hold is later modified.
Create a litigation hold using PowerShell
You can also create a litigation hold by running the following command in Exchange Online
PowerShell:
PowerShell
Set-Mailbox <username> -LitigationHoldEnabled $true
The previous command preserves items indefinitely because the hold duration isn't specified.
To create a time-based hold, using the following command:
PowerShell
Set-Mailbox <username> -LitigationHoldEnabled $true -LitigationHoldDuration <number
of days>
You can also run the following command to verify if the mailbox is placed on litigation hold:
PowerShell
Get-Mailbox <username> | FL LitigationHoldEnabled
A value of True indicates that the mailbox is on litigation hold.
For more information, see Set-Mailbox.
How does litigation hold work?
In the normal deleted item workflow, a mailbox item is moved to the Deletions subfolder in the
Recoverable Items folder when a user permanently deletes it (Shift + Delete) or deletes it from
the Deleted Items folder. A deletion policy (which is a retention tag configured with a Delete
retention action) also moves items to the Deletions subfolder when the retention period
expires.
When a user purges an item in the Recoverable Items folder, or when the deleted item
retention period expires for an item, it moves to the Purges subfolder in the Recoverable Items
folder, and is marked for permanent deletion. It's purged from Exchange the next time the
mailbox is processed by the Managed Folder Assistant (MFA).

--- Page 1677 of 2193 ---
When a mailbox is placed on litigation hold, items in the Purges subfolder are preserved for
the hold duration specified by the litigation hold. The hold duration is calculated from the
original date an item was received or created, and defines how long items in the Purges
subfolder are held.
When the hold duration expires for an item in the Purges subfolder, the item is marked for
permanent deletion and is purged from Exchange the next time the mailbox is processed by
the MFA. If an indefinite hold is placed on a mailbox, items aren't purged from the Purges
subfolder.
The following illustration shows the subfolders in the Recoverable Items folders and the hold
workflow process.

７ Note
If a hold associated with an eDiscovery case is placed on a mailbox, purged items are
moved from the Deletions subfolder to the Discovery Holds subfolder, and are
preserved until the mailbox is released from the eDiscovery hold.
If you don't see the Manage litigation hold option in the Microsoft 365 admin
center, it might be because the mailbox isn't assigned an Exchange Online Plan 2
license.
Last updated on 03/25/2026

--- Page 1678 of 2193 ---
Get started with the integrated apps portal
What is the integrated apps portal?
The integrated apps portal in the Microsoft 365 admin center gives you the flexibility to deploy
and manage apps, agents, and add-ins from a single portal, including both Microsoft
Marketplace apps and custom line-of-business (LOB) apps from a single location. These apps can
be built by Microsoft or by other companies. The ability to find, test, and fully deploy purchased
and licensed apps from the integrated apps portal provides the convenience and benefits your
organization requires to keep business services updated regularly and running efficiently.
The integrated apps portal displays a list of apps that can be accessed by users in your
organization. The following apps can be managed via the integrated apps portal:
Office Add-ins, including those that are registered as a web application in Microsoft Entra.
Cross application apps for Microsoft 365.
Teams Apps that only work on Teams.
SPFx apps
SaaS apps that are available in Microsoft Marketplace and can be deployed by admins
giving consent on behalf of the organization.
How to access the integrated apps portal
The portal can be accessed via the Microsoft 365 Admin Center. Select Settings, and then choose
Integrated apps.

--- Page 1679 of 2193 ---

Who can access the integrated apps portal
The integrated apps portal is available to world-wide customers only and can be accessed by the
following roles:
Global administrator
Global reader
AI administrator
Exchange administrator
Azure Application Admins
） Important
Microsoft recommends that you use roles with the fewest permissions. Using roles with the
fewest permissions helps improve security for your organization. Global Administrator is a
highly privileged role that should be limited to emergency scenarios when you can't use an
existing role. For more information, see About administrator roles in the Microsoft 365
admin center.
This feature is not available in sovereign and government clouds.
To learn more about these roles, see Microsoft Entra built-in roles - Microsoft Entra|Microsoft
Learn.
User and group assignments

--- Page 1680 of 2193 ---
Apps, agents, and add-ins in the portal can be deployed for specific groups, including most
groups supported by Microsoft Entra ID. These are Microsoft 365 groups, distribution lists, and
security groups. Assignments must be made to top-level groups (that is, groups without parent
groups) only. Apps cannot be deployed for specific nested groups (that is, groups that have
parent groups). To know more, read the documentation on Assign users and groups to
application.
７ Note
The following are currently not supported:
Non-mail-enabled security groups
Dynamic distribution groups
In the following example, an app, agent, or add-in is deployed for Sandra, Sheila, and the Sales
Department group. Because the West Coast Sales Department is a nested group, the app is not
deployed for Bert and Fred.
Find out if a group contains nested groups
The easiest way to detect if a group contains nested groups is to view the group contact card
within Outlook. If you enter the group name within the To field of an email and then select the
group name when it resolves, it will show you if it contains users or nested groups. In the
example below, the Members tab of the Outlook contact card for the Test Group shows no users
and only two sub groups.

--- Page 1681 of 2193 ---
You can do the opposite query by resolving the group to see if it's a member of any group. In the
example below, you can see under the Membership tab of the Outlook contact card that Sub
Group 1 is a member of the Test Group.
Note that you can use the Microsoft Graph API to run queries to find the list of groups within a
group. For more information, see Operations on groups.
What controls are available in the integrated
apps portal?
As an admin, the following app, agent, and add-in types can be managed from the integrated
apps portal on the Microsoft 365 admin center.
ﾉ Expand table

--- Page 1682 of 2193 ---
Type Supported What can admins Which admins Other admin centers
Host control on can access the & related actions
Products integrated apps controls on
(any or all) portal? integrated apps
portal?
Add-in Outlook Deploy/Edit Exchange Admin Exchange Admin
deployed Center for default role
users/Remove assignment policy.
Word, Excel, deployment
PowerPoint Microsoft 365 Admin
Center > Org Settings
for Microsoft Store
SPFx app SharePoint Deploy/Remove Global Admin SharePoint Admin
deployment Center
Web app N/A Deploy/Edit Azure Application Microsoft Entra admin
deployed users Admin center
Teams app that uses Teams Block & Unblock Global Admin Go to Teams admin
the unified manifest center for default
for Microsoft 365 tenant setting,
(formerly Teams deployment, and
manifest) version less managing availability
than 1.13
Teams app that uses Outlook Deploy/Edit Azure Application Go to Teams admin
the unified manifest deployed Admin center to manage how
for Microsoft 365 Microsoft 365 users/Remove this app shows up in
(formerly Teams App deployment Teams for users in
manifest) version your organization.
equal to or greater Teams Block & Unblock
than 1.13
Manage
availability>Edit
users
Default setting for
tenant
７ Note
An Exchange admin can deploy an add-in if the Application Administrator role is added or if
the App Registration property is set to true in the Microsoft Entra admin center. For more
information, see Admin Requirements.

--- Page 1683 of 2193 ---
Other admin centers
You can continue to manage access to Office add-ins and Teams apps via the following settings:
Org Settings for access to Word, Excel, and PowerPoint Add-ins
Exchange admin center for Outlook Add-ins
Teams admin center for Teams Apps
You can continue to deploy and manage Office Add-ins and Teams Apps via Teams admin center.
Find support information for apps, agents, and add-ins
In the integrated apps portal, when evaluating an app, you can review the Terms of Use and
Privacy Policy of the application before you make it available to your users.
You can access this information in the following ways:
For publicly available store apps, links to Terms of Use, Privacy Policy, and Support are
available on Microsoft Marketplace . Search for an application and navigate to its Details
+ Support tab for the links.

--- Page 1684 of 2193 ---

For a custom app, contact the app developer who initiated the request to upload the
custom app. For Copilot agents submitted via Microsoft Copilot Studio, Microsoft 365
Agents Toolkit, or any other source, requester's contact details are available in the app
details pane in Requested Apps tab.
You can view the same information of an app in the Teams admin center as well. For details,
see how to find support information for an app.
Frequently asked questions

--- Page 1685 of 2193 ---
Which administrator role do I need to access the integrated
apps portal?
Only Global Admins, AI admins, Azure Application Admins, and Exchange admins can access the
portal.
Global admins can edit all controls for all apps and add-ins in the portal
Azure Application admins can edit controls for cross application apps for Microsoft 365
Exchange Admins can edit any controls for Outlook add-ins deployed by them.
The Integrated apps page link won't show up in the left navigation page of the Microsoft 365
admin center for other administrators.
Can administrators delete or remove apps?
Only the admin who deployed the app, agent, or add-in or a global admin can delete or remove
it.
To remove an app, agent, or add-in, select it from the list view. On the Configuration tab, select
which apps to remove.
Is the integrated apps portal available in sovereign cloud?
No, the portal isn't available to sovereign cloud customers at this time.
Is the integrated apps portal available in government clouds?
No, the portal isn't available to government cloud customers at this time.
Last updated on 01/23/2026

--- Page 1686 of 2193 ---
Deploy and manage Office Add-ins through
the integrated apps portal
What are Office add-ins?
Office Add-ins help users get things done right from their Office applications. They are made by
Microsoft or non-Microsoft developers either for use within their own organizations or made
available to the public in Microsoft Marketplace . For more information, see Start using your
Office Add-in .
Before you begin
Management and deployment via integrated apps portal in the Microsoft 365 admin center
require that the users are using Microsoft 365 Business licenses (Business Basic, Business
Standard, Business Premium), Office 365 Enterprise licenses (E1/E3/E5/F3), or Microsoft 365
Enterprise licenses (E3/E5/F3). The users also need to be signed into Office using their
organizational ID and have Exchange Online and active Exchange Online mailboxes. Your
subscription directory must either be in or federated to Microsoft Entra ID.
Office Requirements
Deployment via the integrated apps portal is supported for Outlook, Excel, Word, and PowerPoint
add-ins. They run across multiple platforms, including Windows, Mac, iPad, and in a browser.
Outlook add-ins are also supported on mobile (iOS and Android).
For Word, Excel, and PowerPoint add-ins, deployment through the integrated apps portal is
supported only on Windows, Mac, and the web (not iPad). Additionally, your users must meet the
following version requirements.
On a Windows device, Version 1704 or later of Microsoft 365 Business licenses (Business
Basic, Business Standard, Business Premium), Office 365 Enterprise licenses (E1/E3/E5/F3), or
Microsoft 365 Enterprise licenses (E3/E5/F3).
On a Mac, Version 15.34 or later.
For Outlook, your users must meet these version requirements.

--- Page 1687 of 2193 ---
Version 1701 or later of Microsoft 365 Business licenses (Business Basic, Business Standard,
Business Premium), Office 365 Enterprise licenses (E1/E3/E5/F3), or Microsoft 365 Enterprise
licenses (E3/E5/F3).
Version 1808 or later of Office Professional Plus 2019 or Office Standard 2019.
Version 16.0.4494.1000 or later of Office Professional Plus 2016 (MSI) or Office Standard
2016 (MSI).
Version 15.0.4937.1000 or later of Office Professional Plus 2013 (MSI) or Office Standard
2013 (MSI).
Version 16.0.9318.1000 or later of Office 2016 for Mac.
Version 2.75.0 or later of Outlook mobile for iOS.
Version 2.2.145 or later of Outlook mobile for Android.
７ Note
MSI versions of Outlook show admin-installed or deployed add-ins in the appropriate
Outlook ribbon, not the My add-ins" section.
Exchange Online Requirements
Microsoft Exchange stores the add-in manifests within your organization's tenant. The admin
deploying add-ins and the users receiving those add-ins must be on a version of Exchange
Online that supports OAuth authentication. OAuth connectivity per user is verified by using the
Test-OAuthConnectivity PowerShell cmdlet.
Deployment through the integrated apps portal doesn't support the following scenarios.
Add-ins that target Word, Excel, or PowerPoint in Office 2013.
An on-premises directory service.
Add-in deployment to an Exchange on-premises Mailbox.
Deployment of Component Object Model (COM) or Visual Studio Tools for Office (VSTO)
add-ins.
Deployments of Microsoft 365 that don't include Exchange Online such as Microsoft 365
Apps for Business and Microsoft 365 Apps for Enterprise.
Controls for managing Office add-ins
As an admin, you can manage Office add-ins in your organization as follows.
Deploy an Office Add-in for users in your organization.

--- Page 1688 of 2193 ---
Manage how users can install and use Office Add-ins.
Upload custom Office add-ins for your organization.
Prepare to deploy and manage Office Add-ins via the
integrated apps portal
Currently, Exchange admins and Global admins can deploy add-ins from the integrated apps
portal.
Add-in deployment is supported on three platforms: Windows, Mac, and on the web. It's also
supported on iOS and Android for Outlook add-ins.
User experience with admin-deployed add-ins
After an add-in has been deployed from the portal, the next time a user opens the relevant Office
application, the add-in automatically downloads. If the add-in supports add-in commands, the
add-in's custom buttons automatically appear in the ribbon within the Office application.
Add-ins no longer appear for users if the admin turns off or deletes the add-in. They'll also stop
appearing if the user is removed from Microsoft Entra ID or from a group that the add-in is
assigned to. Learn how to perform these actions in the following section, Deploy your Office
Add-ins.
Deploy your Office Add-ins
Deploying an add-in means you're preinstalling the add-in for a specific set of users in your
organization. The admin fully controls all management actions taken on a deployed add-in. You
can find, test, and fully deploy apps published by Microsoft and other partners. By purchasing
and licensing the apps from the admin center, you add Microsoft and Microsoft partner apps to
your list from a single location.
1. In the admin center, in the left navigation, choose Settings, and then choose Integrated
apps.
2. In the Deployed Apps list, select Get apps to get a view of the apps.
3. On the Microsoft 365 Apps published apps page, select the app you want to deploy by
choosing Get it now. Accept the permissions and select Continue.
4. Select Deploy at the top of the page next to the message that refers to waiting to be
deployed. If the app selected is linked to a SaaS offer by an independent software vendor
(ISV), all the other apps that are part of this linked offer appear on the Configuration page.

--- Page 1689 of 2193 ---
If you choose to deploy all of the apps, select Next. Otherwise, select Edit, and choose
which apps you want to deploy. Some apps require you to add users before you can select
Deploy.
5. Select Add users, and then select either Entire organization, Specific users/groups, or Just
me. Specific users/groups can be a Microsoft 365 group, a security group, or a distribution
group.
6. Select Next to get to the Accept permission request page. The app capabilities and
permissions of each of the apps are listed. If the app needs consent, select Accept
permissions. Only a global administrator can give consent.
7. Select Next to review the deployment and choose Finish deployment. You can view the
deployment from the Overview tab by choosing View this deployment. In the Microsoft
365 admin center, you can see the status of each deployed app and the date you deployed
the app.
It can take up to 24 hours for an add-in to show up for client for all users.
Considerations when deploying an add-in to users and groups
Admins can deploy an add-in to everyone or to specific users and groups. Each option has
implications.
Everyone: This option assigns the add-in to every user in the organization. Use this option
sparingly and only for add-ins that are truly universal to your organization.
Users: If you assign an add-in to an individual user, and then deploy the add-in to a new
user, you must first add the new user.
Groups: If you assign an add-in to a group, users who are added to the group are
automatically assigned the add-in. When a user is removed from a group, the user loses
access to the add-in. In either case, no other action is required from the admin.
Just me: If you assign an add-in to just yourself, the add-in is assigned to only your account,
which is ideal for testing the add-in.
The right option for your organization depends on your configuration. However, we recommend
making assignments by using groups. As an admin, you might find it easier to manage add-ins by
using groups and controlling the membership of those groups rather than assigning individual
users each time. In some situations, you might want to restrict access to a small set of users by
making assignments to specific users by assigning users manually. For example, consider
assigning the add-in to a small set of users first for purposes of testing it.
Recommended approach for deploying Office Add-ins

--- Page 1690 of 2193 ---
To roll out add-ins by using a phased approach, we recommend the following actions.
1. Roll out the add-in to a small set of business stakeholders and members of the IT
department. If the deployment is successful, move to step 2.
2. Roll out the add-in to more individuals within the business. Again, evaluate the results and,
if successful, continue with full deployment.
3. Perform a full rollout to all users.
Depending on the size of the target audience, you can add or remove roll-out steps.
Scenarios where Exchange admin can't deploy an add-in
There are two cases in which an Exchange Admin isn't able to deploy an add-in.
If an add-in needs permission for Microsoft Graph APIs and needs consent from a global
admin.
If an add-in is linked to two or more apps, another admin (Exchange or global) deployed at
least one of those linked apps, and the user assignment isn't uniform. We only allow
deployment of add-ins when the user assignment is the same for all the already deployed
apps.
Edit users for deployed add-ins
Post deployment, admins can also edit the deployed to add-ins.
1. In the admin center, select Settings, then select Integrated apps.
2. On the Integrated apps page, it displays a list of apps that are either single add-ins or add-
ins that are linked with other apps.
3. Select an app and then scroll down to select Edit Users or select the User tab in the
overview pane.
4. Select the user group you want to deploy the add-in to.
5. Review the app information, and then select Update.
７ Note
Only the admin who deployed the add-in or a global admin can manage that add-in.
Update deployed add-ins
Post deployment, admins can also approve updates for the deployed add-ins.

--- Page 1691 of 2193 ---
1. In the admin center, select Settings then select Integrated apps.
2. On the Integrated apps page, it displays a list of apps that are either single add-ins or add-
ins that are linked with other apps.
3. Select an app with Status of More apps available to open the Manage pane. The status of
More apps available lets you know that there are more integrations from the ISVs that
aren't yet deployed.
4. On the Overview tab, select Deploy. Some apps require you to add users before you can
select Deploy.
5. Select Users, select Is this a test deployment, and then select either Entire organization,
Specific users/groups or Just me. You can also select Test deployment if you prefer to wait
to deploy the app to the entire organization. Specific users or groups can be a Microsoft
365 group, a security group, or a distribution group.
6. Select Update and then select Done. You can now select Deploy on the Overview tab.
7. Review the app information, and then select Deploy.
8. Select Done on the Deployment completed page, and review the details of the test or full
deployment on the Overview tab.
9. If the app has a status of Update pending, you can select the app to open the Manage
pane and update the app.
10. To just update users, select the Users tab and make the appropriate change. Select Update
after making your changes.
Delete a deployed add-in
You can also delete an add-in that was deployed.
1. In the admin center, select Settings, then select Integrated apps.
2. Select any row to display the management pane.
3. Select the Configuration tab.
4. Select the add-in that you want to delete and then select Remove.
７ Note
If another admin deployed the add-in, then the Remove button will be disabled. Only the
admin who deployed the app or a global admin can delete the add-in.
Manage how users can install and use Office add-ins

--- Page 1692 of 2193 ---
Managing how users can install and use Office add-ins means that you decide who can or can't
install and use add-ins in your organization. Unlike deploying an add-in that preinstalls for
selected users, managing an add-in allows you to decide which users can self-install Office add-
ins from the stores on the Microsoft applications.
Word, Outlook, and PowerPoint
1. To manage users' ability to self-install and use Office add-ins from the Word, Excel, and
PowerPoint stores, visit the Microsoft 365 Admin Center.
2. Choose Settings and the select Org Settings.
3. Scroll down and select User owned apps and services.
4. Check or clear the option to allow or prevent users to access all Word, Excel, and PowerPoint
add-ins.
Options available in non-educational tenants:
Options available in educational tenants:

--- Page 1693 of 2193 ---
The user's license information is used to define whether a user is a faculty, staff, or a student
along with the Age Group property to check whether the student is an adult or not.
７ Note
For more information, see the following articles.
Learn how to review the user's license type and assign or unassign licenses as
required
Understand how to configure the Age Group property in the Microsoft Encarta
admin center
７ Note
This setting doesn't affect any deployed Office add-ins on Word, Excel, and PowerPoint. You
can continue to deploy Office add-ins to users in your organization, even if the setting is
turned off.
Outlook

--- Page 1694 of 2193 ---
1. To manage users' ability to self-install and use Office add-ins from Outlook store, sign in to
the classic Exchange admin center as a global administrator.
2. Go to Permissions and then select User Roles.
3. Select an existing role assignment policy or create a new policy.
4. Type a name for the policy if you're creating a new policy.
5. Select the following roles: My Custom Apps, My MarketPlaceApps, and My
ReadWriteMailbox Apps.
6. Select Save.
Once the policy is created, you can assign it to users in your organization.
You can also create multiple policies and assign it to different users within your
organization.
7. Activating these checkboxes turns on access to Outlook add-ins for the users assigned to
the policy.
8. Deactivating these checkboxes turns off access to Outlook add-ins for users assigned to the
policy.
７ Note
This setting doesn't affect any deployed Outlook add-ins. You can continue to deploy
Outlook add-ins to users in your organization, even if the setting is turned off.
Microsoft is now partnering with leading developers to create unified apps that work across
Outlook, Word, Excel, PowerPoint, Teams, and the Microsoft 365 App (formerly known as
Office.com). Any settings made for Office Add-ins continue to be honored as long as they stay as
add-ins. When Office add-ins are upgraded to work across different Microsoft applications, you
can learn to manage them from here. For more information, see Apps for Microsoft 365 that work
across application hosts.
Upload Custom Office Add-ins in your organization
You can also upload custom line-of-business add-ins and deploy them to users in your
organization.
1. In the admin center, in the left navigation, choose Settings and then Integrated apps.
2. Select Upload custom apps. The Upload Apps to deploy wizard opens. Custom line-of-
business add-ins for Word, PowerPoint, Excel, and Outlook are supported.

--- Page 1695 of 2193 ---
3. The next steps depend on whether the add-in uses the XML-formatted add-in only manifest
or the unified manifest for Microsoft 365. See Office Add-ins manifest for information about
the difference.
Add-in only manifest:
a. Select Office Add-in on the App type dropdown.
b. In the Choose how to upload app section, do one of the following:
Select the option to upload the manifest, and then select the Choose File button.
Navigate to the add-in's manifest and complete the upload.
Select the option to provide a URL for the manifest, fill in the URL, and then
select Validate.
７ Note
The uploaded manifest size can't exceed 512 KB.
Unified manifest for Microsoft 365:
a. Select Teams app on the App type dropdown (not Office Add-in).
b. Select the Choose File button. Navigate to the add-in's zip-formatted app package
file (which contains the manifest) and complete the upload.
4. Select Next.
5. Select Add users, and then choose either Entire organization, Specific users/groups, or Just
me. Specific users/groups can be a Microsoft 365 group, a security group, or a distribution
group.
6. Select Next to view the Accept permission request page. The app capabilities and
permissions of the apps are listed. If the app needs consent, select Accept permissions.
Only a global administrator can give consent.
7. Select Next to review the deployment and choose Finish deployment. You can view the
deployment from the Overview tab by choosing View this deployment.
More about Office Add-ins security
Office Add-ins combine a manifest file that contains some metadata about the add-in, but most
importantly points to a web application that contains all the code and logic. Add-ins can range in

--- Page 1696 of 2193 ---
their capabilities, but usually read and write data to and from the user's documents.
For more information about the types and capabilities of Office Add-ins, see Office Add-ins
platform overview, especially the section Components of an Office Add-in.
To interact with the user's document, the add-in needs to declare what permission it needs in the
manifest. A five-level JavaScript API access-permissions model provides the basis for privacy and
security for users of task pane add-ins. Most of the add-ins in the Microsoft Marketplace are level
read/write document with almost all add-ins supporting at least the read document level. For
more information about the permission levels, see Requesting permissions for API use in content
and task pane add-ins.
When a manifest is updated, the typical changes are to an add-in's icon and text. Occasionally,
add-in commands change. However, the permissions of the add-in don't change. The web
application where all the code and logic for the add-in runs can change at any time, which is the
nature of web applications.
Updates for add-ins happen as follows.
Line-of-business add-in: In this case, where an admin uploaded a manifest, the admin must
upload the new manifest file to support metadata changes. The next time a user starts the
relevant Microsoft 365 productivity application, the add-in will update.
Microsoft Marketplace add-in: When an admin selected an add-in from Microsoft
Marketplace and then the developer updated the manifest in Microsoft Marketplace, the
admin doesn't have to take any action. The next time a user starts the relevant Microsoft
365 productivity application, the add-in will update.
７ Note
There are other ways for deploying Office Add-ins in certain scenarios. For more information,
see Deploy and publish Office Add-ins.
Last updated on 08/26/2025

--- Page 1697 of 2193 ---
Apps for Microsoft 365 that work across
application hosts
 Tip
See Apps for Microsoft 365 for a quick overview.
An app for Microsoft 365 that uses a sufficiently recent manifest version can work across the
Microsoft 365 Copilot application, Outlook, and Teams. Developers can submit a single app
package that works across Teams, Outlook, and the Microsoft 365 Copilot application. In some
cases, these apps contain closely related sub-apps that are surfaced in in the different host
applications. For more information, see Extend apps across Microsoft 365.
Previously, for an app to work in Teams, Outlook, and the Microsoft 365 Copilot application,
admins needed to manage each app independently across the Teams admin center, Exchange
admin center, and Microsoft 365 admin center. Now admins can manage a single app for
Microsoft 365 from the integrated apps portal.
What are apps that work across application hosts?
There are some apps for Microsoft 365 that are truely the same app surfaced in one or more of
those application hosts. Some examples are in the following list.
Custom personal tabs can be surfaced in the Microsoft 365 Copilot application, Outlook,
and Teams.
Message extensions can be surface in Teams chat and Outlook emails.
In this article, we call these "cross application apps". These apps may be subject to different terms
than other apps for Microsoft 365. Read your license agreement for more details.
７ Note
To be surfaced across the host applications, a app for Microsoft 365 must use a version
of the unified manifest for Microsoft 365 (formerly "Teams manifest") greater than or
equal to v1.13.

--- Page 1698 of 2193 ---
An cross application app for Microsoft 365 that is surfaced in Outlook is not an Office
add-in. But it is possible to include an add-in along with the cross application app in a
single app package. For more information, see General guidance for combining an
Office add-in and a Teams app.
） Important
Any changes made on the integrated apps portal on the Microsoft 365 admin center only
impact whether and how a cross application app is surfaced on Outlook and the Microsoft
365 Copilot application. To manage how these apps show up on Teams, use the Teams
admin center.
The following sections tell you more about the management tools available for cross application
apps for Microsoft 365.
７ Note
For guidance about managing Teams only apps, see Teams apps that only work on Teams.
Before you begin
The following controls on the integrated apps portal in the Microsoft 365 Admin Center are only
available to Global Admins. Check your credentials before you proceed.
） Important
Microsoft recommends that you use roles with the fewest permissions. Using roles with the
fewest permissions helps improve security for your organization. Global Administrator is a
highly privileged role that should be limited to emergency scenarios when you can't use an
existing role. For more information, see About administrator roles in the Microsoft 365
admin center.
Controls for managing cross application apps
As an admin, you can manage cross application apps as follows:

--- Page 1699 of 2193 ---
1. Deploy/Pre-install an app for users in your organization on Outlook and the Microsoft 365
Copilot application (but not on Teams).
2. Manage how users can install and use these apps on Outlook and the Microsoft 365 Copilot
application (but not on Teams).
3. Upload custom cross application apps for your organization.
Deploy a cross application app for Microsoft 365 via
the integrated apps portal
As an admin, you can now deploy these apps to a specific set of users, the entire organization, or
just to yourself from the integrated apps portal on Microsoft 365 admin center. Deploying an app
means that it is preinstalled for the selected users on the applicable hosts of the app.
1. Sign into Microsoft 365 admin center as a Global Administrator.
2. Select Settings and then select Integrated Apps.
3. Select Get apps in the Deployed Apps list. This action opens up Microsoft Marketplace in
embedded form from where you can select the app that you want to deploy.
4. Next, you see the deployment screen where general information about the app is given and
the applicable products on which the app is deployed.
5. Click Next to select the set of users to whom you want to deploy the app. Read more about
user groups and assignments.
6. Next, accept permissions if there are any. Then select Next.
7. Review and finish the deployment of the app. This app is now preinstalled for all selected
users in the applicable hosts.
As a Global Administrator, you can also initiate deployment of an app from its overview pane in
the Available Apps list on the integrated apps portal.
1. Select the app you wish to deploy from the Available Apps list on Integrated Apps.
2. Next, select Deploy app in the overview pane.
3. Complete the deployment steps as described earlier in this section.
） Important
Any changes made to these apps from the integrated apps portal on the Microsoft 365
admin center only impact these apps on Outlook and the Microsoft 365 Copilot application.
To manage how these apps show up on Teams, use the Teams admin center.

--- Page 1700 of 2193 ---
As an admin, you can also take management actions on these apps such as removing the
deployment or editing user access.
７ Note
On the Integrated Apps page, the CoPilot app settings apply to both Microsoft 365 Copilot
and the Copilot Chat apps. Any changes made to this app from the integrated apps portal
apply to both.
To remove the deployment of this app
1. Select Remove app in the overview tab of an app from the Deployed Apps list.
2. Consent to the removal terms.
3. Select Remove, then select Done.
To edit the user assignment of an app
1. Select Edit users in the overview tab of an app from the Deployed Apps list.
2. Change the user assignment to deploy this app for a new set of users.
3. Select Update, then select Done.
Manage how users can install cross application apps for
Microsoft 365
As an admin, you can manage availability or how users can install such apps in your organization.
You have complete control over who can or can't install and use apps in your organization. Unlike
deploying an app that you pre-install for selected users, managing availability of an app allows
you to decide which users can self-install these apps from the stores on the Microsoft
applications.
The following sections tell you more about the tools available for managing availability of these
apps on Outlook and the Microsoft 365 Copilot application.
How to see the available and blocked apps in your organization
1. Sign into Microsoft 365 admin center as a Global Administrator.
2. Select Settings, then select Integrated Apps.
3. Select the Available Apps or Blocked Apps list. Here you can view the status of all apps in
the public catalog, and any custom line-of-business apps uploaded from the Teams or

--- Page 1701 of 2193 ---
Microsoft 365 admin centers.
4. Select an app to view more details about the app, applicable host products, and availability
status within your organization.
How to block an app
You can block an app for all users in your organization to restrict them from downloading and
using the app on the Microsoft 365 Copilot application and Outlook.
1. Sign into Microsoft 365 admin center as a Global Administrator.
2. Select Settings, and then select Integrated Apps.
3. Select the Available Apps list.
4. Select an app from the Available Apps list to open the overview pane.
5. Select Block app.
6. Consent to blocking the app by selecting Yes, I'm sure I want to block this app.
7. Select Block. You can now see this app in the Blocked Apps list.
When you choose to block an app, it is blocked for all users in your organization. Blocking an app
overrides any previous admin deployment or user installation in Microsoft 365 and Outlook so
that no one in your organization can use the app.
７ Note
The app is only be blocked in the Microsoft 365 Copilot application and Outlook. Teams
continues to honor the current setting for Teams Apps made in the Teams admin center and
for Outlook apps made in the Exchange admin center. For more details, read What happens
to your existing settings for Teams and Outlook.
How to unblock an app
You can unblock an app so that it can start showing up in the Microsoft 365 Copilot application
and Outlook.
1. Sign in to Microsoft 365 admin center as a Global Administrator.
2. Select Settings, and then select Integrated Apps.
3. Select the Blocked Apps list.
4. Select an app from the Blocked Apps list to launch the overview pane.
5. Select Unblock app.

--- Page 1702 of 2193 ---
6. Read the availability and deployment status that the app reverts to after unblocking. These
statuses are the last saved ones of the app before it was blocked.
7. Select Unblock. You can now see this app in the Available Apps list and/or the Deployed
Apps list.
When you choose to unblock an app, the app reverts to the last saved state of availability and
deployment. If the app doesn't have any availability status set, the app reverts to the default
tenant setting. Learn more about these controls in the following section.
How to manage the availability of an app in your organization
As an admin, you can control which apps can be installed and used by which users in your
organization. By changing the availability, you're deciding how end users in your organization can
install these apps from the store and use them on Outlook and the Microsoft 365 Copilot
application. Admins can edit the availability of all Microsoft Marketplace apps and line-of-
business (LOB) apps uploaded by them.
1. Sign into the Microsoft 365 admin center as a Global Administrator.
2. Select Settings, then select Integrated Apps.
3. Select the Available Apps list.
4. Next, select the app you want to edit. This launches the app's overview pane.
5. Scroll down and select Edit Users or select the Users tab in the overview pane. Read more
about user groups and assignments earlier in this article.
6. Select the availability status of the app you want to set:
No users in the organization can install means that no one in the organization can
install this app on their own from the store and use it in the client.
All users in the organization can install means that everyone in the organization can
install this app on their own from the store and use it in the client.
Specific users/group in the organization can install means that only the users
selected by you are able to install the app on their own from the store and use it in the
client. Unselected users are not able to do so.
7. Select Save.
７ Note
The availability setting of an app doesn't impact any admin deployed apps. The availability
setting only allows you to control which end users can install and use these apps on their

--- Page 1703 of 2193 ---
own. Any previous admin deployments made are still be honored.
７ Note
Availability setting of an app overrides the state set in default tenant setting. Learn more
about default state settings in the following section.
Customize default settings for cross application apps for
Microsoft 365
As an admin, you can control the default state of any new and incoming app in your organization.
You can do this individually for Microsoft apps, third party apps, and custom apps. The default
setting for any organization is set to Allow all users in the organization to access apps. You can
change this default setting on the integrated apps portal in the Microsoft 365 admin center.
1. Sign into the Microsoft 365 admin center as a Global Administrator.
2. Select Settings, then select Integrated Apps.
3. Select the Available Apps list.
4. Next, select the Settings icon at the top of the apps list to open the Customize default
settings pane.
5. For each app type category, set up the toggle to allow or disallow user's installation of all
apps.
When you switch the toggle to Yes, users can install the apps of that app type.
When you switch the toggle to No, users aren't allowed to install apps of that app
type. Additionally, apps previously installed by users under that app type are no longer
be accessible to the users. This action does not impact an admin's ability to install the
apps. When the toggle is switched to No, admins can still install the apps, and all
admin-installed apps continue to be accessible to the users.
The default tenant state applies to the following apps:
All new and incoming cross application apps for Microsoft 365.
All cross application apps published in the past that the weren't blocked by the admin.
If an app was previously blocked for Outlook and the Microsoft 365 Copilot application,
it continues to remain blocked even after the default state for the tenant is changed.
When admins unblock the app, it reverts to the default state set for the tenant on
Outlook and the Microsoft 365 Copilot application.

--- Page 1704 of 2193 ---
All cross application apps published in the past that were deployed by the admin.
The default tenant state also applies to admin-deployed apps. If an app was previously
deployed by the admin to a set of users for Outlook and the Microsoft 365 Copilot
application, it continues to remain deployed to the selected set of users, even after the
default state for the tenant is changed.
The default tenant state won't apply to the following apps:
Apps that have any user selections made by the admin.
The changes made by the admin as part of How to manage the availability of an app in
your organization are honored over the default state in the tenant. Once an admin
specifies users for an app, this setting supersedes the tenant-wide default setting for that
app.
What happens to your settings on Teams and Outlook
Any existing settings made on the Teams admin center continues to be honored on the Teams
client.
As an example, the Foo Teams-only app recently upgraded to a cross application app.
ﾉ Expand table
Impact on Teams Impact on Microsoft 365 Impact on Outlook client
client
If you had Users in your Users in your organization can Users in your organization
previously organization can't download and use Foo in the can download and use Foo
blocked the Foo download and use Microsoft 365 Copilot in Outlook. This can be
app on the Teams Foo on Teams. application. This can be controlled by admins on the
admin center controlled by admins on the Microsoft 365 admin center.
Microsoft 365 admin center.
If you had Users in your Users in your organization can Users in your organization
previously organization can download and use Foo in the can download and use Foo
allowed the Foo download and use Microsoft 365 Copilot in Outlook. This can be
app on the Teams the Foo in Teams. application. This can be controlled by admins on the
admin center controlled by admins on the Microsoft 365 admin center.
Microsoft 365 admin center.
Now that Foo is a cross application app, you can make changes to its availability from the
Microsoft 365 admin center.

--- Page 1705 of 2193 ---
ﾉ Expand table
Impact on Teams client Impact on Microsoft 365 Impact on Outlook client
If you block No impact. Users in your Users in your organization Users in your organization
Foo App in the organization continue to can't download the Foo on can't download the Foo
Microsoft 365 experience Teams behavior the Microsoft 365 Copilot App on Outlook, and can't
admin center for Foo based on the application, and can't use any use any previously
admin settings in Teams previously installed (by installed (by user/admin)
admin center. user/admin) Foo app. Foo app.
If you unblock No impact. Users in your Users in your organization can Users in your organization
Foo in the organization continue to download and use Foo on the can download and use Foo
Microsoft 365 experience Teams behavior Microsoft 365 Copilot in Outlook. Users can use
admin center. for Foo based on the application. Users can use any any previously installed
admin settings in Teams previously installed (by (by user/admin) Foo app.
admin center. user/admin) Foo app.
Upload custom cross application apps
You can also upload custom line of business apps and deploy/pre-install them for users in your
organization:
1. In the Microsoft 365 admin center, in the left nav, choose Settings and then Integrated
apps.
2. Select Upload custom apps.
3. Select Teams App on the App type dropdown.
4. Upload the app package zip file from your device.
5. Select Next.
6. Select Add users, and then select either Entire organization, Specific users/groups, or Just
me. Specific users/groups can be a Microsoft 365 group, a security group, or a distributed
group. Read more about user groups and assignments.
7. Select Next to view the Accept permission request page. The app capabilities and
permissions of the apps are listed. If the app needs consent, select Accept permissions.
Only a global administrator can give consent.
8. Select Next to review the deployment and choose Finish deployment. You can view the
deployment from the Overview tab by choosing View this deployment.
Whenever a custom line of business app is uploaded, it is made available to all users in the
organization for installation and use by default. You can edit the availability of this custom line of
business app from the Available apps list. For more information, see the section about how to
manage availability of an app in your organization.

--- Page 1706 of 2193 ---
As a Global Administrator, you can also initiate deployment of a custom app (uploaded from
Teams Admin Center) from its overview pane in the Available Apps list on the integrated apps
portal.
1. Once the app is uploaded from Teams Admin Center, it shows up in the Available Apps list
on Integrated Apps with the availability status of All users in the organization can install.
2. Select the app from the Available Apps list on Integrated Apps.
3. Next, select Deploy app in the overview pane.
4. Complete the deployment steps as listed above.
Once finished, the app is deployed to Outlook and the Microsoft 365 Copilot application. To
manage this app on Teams, visit Teams Admin Center.
７ Note
Before uploading a custom app from the integrated apps portal on Microsoft 365 admin
center, please verify whether this app is already visible in the Available Apps list. If it is
visible, please deploy the app using the steps outlined above. Do not upload it again.
Removal of a custom app
1. Select Remove app in the overview tab of an app from the Deployed Apps list.
2. Consent to the removal terms.
3. Select Remove, then select Done.
７ Note
Removing a custom app from the Deployed Apps list on the integrated apps portal deletes
the deployment and the app is no longer available for installation to end users in your
organization on Outlook and/or the Microsoft 365 Copilot application. If the custom app is
also supported on Teams, it is removed from the Teams admin center.
Please verify whether the app was successfully removed from both the Microsoft 365 admin
center and Teams admin center.
Last updated on 01/23/2026

--- Page 1707 of 2193 ---
Teams apps that only work on Teams
Some Teams apps cannot be surfaced in Outlook or the Microsoft 365 Copilot application, either
because the app wouldn't make sense in those hosts or because they use a manifest version less
than 1.13. These apps, which are sometimes called "pure Teams apps" or "Teams only apps" to
distinguish them from cross application apps, can be identified in the integrated apps portal by
the availability status Some or all users in the organization can install in the Available Apps list.
Admins cannot preinstall or remove these apps, but they can block or unblock them.
Before you begin
These apps only show up on the Available Apps list based on your settings in Teams admin
center. Verify if your settings in the Teams admin center are for non-Microsoft apps.
If access to non-Microsoft apps on Teams admin center is turned on, admins can start
seeing these apps on the integrated apps portal in the Available apps and Blocked apps
lists based on their setting in Teams admin center.
If access to non-Microsoft apps on Teams admin center is turned off, no such apps are
visible on the integrated apps portal.
These apps always have the availability status of Some or all users in the organization can
install. These apps always have only Teams as the host product. To know more about which
users can access this app on Teams, visit the Teams admin center.
） Important
Microsoft recommends that you use roles with the fewest permissions. Using roles with the
fewest permissions helps improve security for your organization. Global Administrator is a
highly privileged role that should be limited to emergency scenarios when you can't use an
existing role. For more information, see About administrator roles in the Microsoft 365
admin center.
How to block a Teams app on Teams
1. Sign into Microsoft 365 admin center as a global administrator.
2. Select Settings, and then select Integrated Apps.
3. Select the Available Apps list.

--- Page 1708 of 2193 ---
4. Select an app with the status Some or all users in the organization can install from the
Available Apps list to open the overview pane. These apps will always have only Teams
listed as host product.
5. Select Block app.
6. Consent to blocking the app by selecting Yes, I'm sure I want to block this app.
7. Select Block. You can now see this app in the Blocked Apps list. When the admin blocks
such an app, it's blocked for all users in the organization on the Teams client.
How to unblock a Teams app on Teams?
1. Sign into Microsoft 365 admin center as a global administrator.
2. Select Settings, and then select Integrated Apps.
3. Select the Blocked Apps list.
4. Select an app from the Blocked Apps list to open the overview pane.
5. Select Unblock app.
6. Read the availability and deployment status that the app will revert to after unblocking.
These statutes are the last saved ones of the app before it was blocked.
7. Select Unblock. You can now see this app in the Available Apps list and/or the Deployed
Apps list based on the last saved setting.
When the admin unblocks such an app, it's reverted to the last saved setting as set by the admin
in Teams admin center. Visit Teams admin center to know the latest status of the app on Teams.
７ Note
Teams apps with availability status as Some or all users in the organization can install can
only be blocked on unblocked on the integrated apps portal for the Teams client. For any
other management actions on these apps or to view how these apps show up on Teams to
users in your organization, please visit the Teams admin center.
Last updated on 01/23/2026

--- Page 1709 of 2193 ---
SaaS linked apps
The Microsoft 365 admin center gives you the flexibility to deploy single store apps, custom
business line of apps, and bundled apps - also called SaaS linked apps - from a single location.
We invited our independent software vendor (ISV) partners to link their SaaS offer with related
free apps, such as apps for Microsoft 365, Teams apps, Office add-ins, and SharePoint Framework
solutions. For more information on how partners create these apps, see How to plan a SaaS offer
for the commercial marketplace .
We help our admins discover these linked apps with the SaaS offer and manage them all at once
from the integrated apps portal. The UX on the integrated apps portal allows the admin to apply
the same gesture across all the apps at once.
An admin can choose not to deploy an app that is linked to an SaaS offer. In the integrated apps
portal, admins then find the status of More apps available in the Deployed Apps list view. This
status is to inform the admins that there are more integrations from the ISVs that aren't
deployed.
Unsupported scenarios
There are some scenarios when SaaS linked apps can't be managed from the integrated apps
portal. You aren't able to deploy a single store add-in from the integrated apps portal for the
following scenarios:
The same add-in is linked to more than one SaaS offer.
The SaaS offer is linked to add-ins, but it doesn't integrate with Microsoft Graph and no
Microsoft Entra App ID is provided.
The SaaS offer is linked to add-ins, but Microsoft Entra App ID provided for Microsoft Graph
integration is shared across multiple SaaS offers.
Last updated on 08/26/2025

--- Page 1710 of 2193 ---
Manage agents in the Microsoft 365
admin center
） Important
This article is intended for IT administrators.
The capability is enabled by default in all Microsoft 365 Copilot licensed tenants.
Microsoft 365 Copilot combines the power of large language models with your data and apps in
Microsoft 365. It captures natural language commands to produce content and analyze data. It
enables access to and use of other apps, such as Jira, Dynamics 365, or Bing Web Search.
You can manage agents for Copilot by using the Microsoft 365 admin center . You can enable,
disable, assign, block, or remove agents for your organization, and manage Copilot capabilities.
７ Note
Researcher and Analyst are first-party Microsoft experiences built on the same foundation as
Microsoft 365 Copilot, operating entirely within the Microsoft 365 commercial data
processing boundary. These tools inherit all existing security, privacy, and compliance
commitments that apply across the suite of Microsoft 365 products. These tools are available
in Microsoft 365 Copilot Chat under Tools and can be invoked by the user anytime. While
Researcher and Analyst coexist with agents and abide by all the agent-related governance
capabilities, Researcher and Analyst are part of the core Copilot chat experience and will not
fall under any agent-related settings. For related information, see Agent settings in
Microsoft 365 admin center.
Microsoft Agent 365 is the control plane for AI agents, empowering your organization to
confidently deploy, govern, and manage all your agents at scale, regardless of where these
agents are built or acquired. For more information, see Overview of Microsoft Agent 365
and Microsoft Agent 365 documentation.
Overview

--- Page 1711 of 2193 ---
Agents enhance the functionality of Copilot by adding search capabilities, custom actions,
connectors, and APIs. Agents are custom versions of Microsoft 365 Copilot that combine
instructions, knowledge, and skills to perform specific tasks or scenarios. For more information
about using agents with Copilot, see Get started with agents in the Microsoft 365 Copilot app .
The members of your organization can find and add agents from the Agent Store within the
Microsoft 365 Copilot app. However, before users can access these agents, each agent must
undergo a streamlined process of submission and approval. Agents are managed in the Agent
Registry of Microsoft 365 admin center. As part of agent management, you can review agent
requests and determine whether to publish the agent to the store or reject the agent submission.
For more information, see Agent management in Microsoft 365 admin center. Members of your
organization can only access the agents that you have allowed.
Agent types you can manage
You can manage several types of agents in Microsoft 365 Copilot, each serving different
purposes:
Published by your organization: Built with predefined instructions and actions. These
agents follow structured logic and are best for predictable, rule-based tasks. Before you
make these agents available to members of your organization, these agents go through an
admin approval to ensure compliance and readiness. For more information, see Manage
agent requests in Microsoft 365 admin center.
７ Note
Publishing agents to the organization is supported in Microsoft 365 Government
Community Cloud High (GCCH) and Government Community Cloud Moderate (GCCM)
environments.
Shared by creator: Shared agents are custom versions of Microsoft 365 Copilot that
combine instructions, knowledge, and skills to perform specific tasks or scenarios. Creators
can create and share these agents through multiple channels, such as Microsoft 365 Copilot
Studio, Microsoft 365 Copilot Agent Builder, and more. Shared agents enhance the
functionality of Copilot by adding search capabilities, custom actions, connectors, and APIs.
For more information, see Share agents with other users.
As an admin, you can view shared agents on the Agents page in the Microsoft 365 admin
center. You can see a list of all shared agents in the Agent Registry, including details such as

--- Page 1712 of 2193 ---
the agent's name, creator, creation date, host products, and availability status. You can
search for specific agents and manage their lifecycle, including blocking agents that are
deemed unsafe or noncompliant.
For your users, shared agents are available through Copilot on different surfaces. Users can
interact with these agents to perform specific tasks or get assistance based on the agent's
capabilities.
Microsoft agents: Developed by Microsoft and integrated with Microsoft 365 services.
External partner agents: Created by external developers or vendors. You can control their
availability and permissions.
Frontier agents: Experimental or advanced agents that use new capabilities or integrations.
These agents might be in early stages of development or testing and could require more
oversight or limited rollout.
App Builder agent: A type of Frontier agent developed by Microsoft that can be
managed as part of Microsoft 365 Copilot. You can also manage App Builder using Power
Platform admin center .
Workflows agent: A type of Frontier agent developed by Microsoft that can be managed
as part of Microsoft 365 Copilot. Flows created in Copilot are saved to the default
environment unless environment routing is enabled for Copilot Studio. You can also
manage flows using the Power Platform admin center .
Get started
To get started managing agents within Microsoft 365 admin center, see Agent management in
Microsoft 365 admin center. You will learn about agent management roles and permissions, as
well as agent inventory, lifecycle, tools, and settings.
） Important
Use roles with the fewest permissions. Accounts with lower permissions help improve
security for your organization. Global Administrator is a highly privileged role. Limit its use to
emergency scenarios when you can't use an existing role. For more information, see About
admin roles in the Microsoft 365 admin center.

--- Page 1713 of 2193 ---

Related articles
Agent management in Microsoft 365 admin center.
Last updated on 05/18/2026

--- Page 1714 of 2193 ---
Determine if centralized deployment of
Office Add-ins works for your organization
The integrated apps portal is the recommended and most feature-rich way for most customers
to centrally deploy Office Add-ins to users and groups within your organization.
However, if the integrated apps portal isn't available to you, or if you're a customer in a
sovereign or government cloud (GCC, GCC‑H, DoD, AirGap, or Gallatin), use this article as
guidance. Use it to determine whether your organization and users meet the requirements for
centralized deployment.
Centralized deployment allows admins to deploy Office Add-ins to users and groups within an
organization. It provides the following benefits:
An admin can deploy and assign an add-in directly to a user, to multiple users via a
group, or to everyone in the organization (see Admin requirement section for
information).
When the relevant Office application starts, the add-in automatically downloads. If the
add-in supports add-in commands, the add-in automatically appears in the ribbon within
the Microsoft 365 application.
Add-ins no longer appear for users if:
The admin turns off or deletes the add-in.
The user is removed from Microsoft Entra ID or from a group that the add-in is
assigned to.
Centralized deployment supports two platforms: Office on Windows and Mac. It also supports
Office for the web. For Outlook Mobile Add-ins only, centralized deployment also supports iOS
and Android.
） Important
After you centrally deploy an add-in, it can take up to 24 hours for the add-in to appear
on all users' clients.
Before you begin
Centralized deployment of add-ins requires that the users have one of the following licenses:
Microsoft 365 Business (Business Basic, Business Standard, Business Premium).
Office 365 Enterprise (E1/E3/E5/F3).

--- Page 1715 of 2193 ---
Microsoft 365 Enterprise (E3/E5/F3) (and are signed in Microsoft 365 using their
organizational ID).
Office 365 Education (A1/A3/A5).
Microsoft 365 Education (A3/A5).
Office 365 Government (G3/G5).
Microsoft 365 Government (G3/G5).
Users must also have Exchange Online and active Exchange Online mailboxes. Your
subscription directory must either be in or federated to Microsoft Entra ID.
The following are specific requirements for Microsoft 365 and Exchange, or use the Centralized
Deployment Compatibility Checker.
Centralized deployment doesn't support the following items:
Add-ins that target Office MSI versions, except Outlook.
An on-premises directory service.
Add-in deployment to an Exchange on-premises Mailbox.
Add-in deployment to SharePoint.
Apps for Microsoft 365 that include more than an add-in (For example, an app for
Microsoft 365 that includes a Teams app).
Deployment of Component Object Model (COM) or Visual Studio Tools for Office (VSTO)
add-ins.
Deployments of Microsoft 365 that don't include Exchange Online such as SKUs:
Microsoft 365 Apps for Business and Microsoft 365 Apps for Enterprise.
Microsoft 365 requirements
For Word, Excel, and PowerPoint add-ins, your users must use one of the following versions:
On a Windows device, Version 1704 or later of Microsoft 365 Business licenses (Microsoft
365 Business Basic, Microsoft 365 Business Standard, Microsoft 365 Business Premium),
Office 365 Enterprise licenses (E1/E3/E5/F3), or Microsoft 365 for enterprise licenses
(E3/E5/F3).
On a Mac, Version 15.34 or later.
For Outlook, your users must use one of the following versions:
ﾉ Expand table

--- Page 1716 of 2193 ---
Product/Platform Minimum version Add-in Add-in in
required in My Outlook
add-ins ribbon
Microsoft 365 Business licenses (Microsoft 365 Business Version 1701 or ✅
Basic, Microsoft 365 Business Standard, Microsoft 365 later
Business Premium), Office 365 Enterprise licenses
(E1/E3/E5/F3), or Microsoft 365 for enterprise licenses
(E3/E5/F3)
Office Professional Plus 2019 or Office Standard 2019 Version 1808 or ✅
later
Office Professional Plus 2016 (MSI) or Office Standard 2016 Version ✅
(MSI)* 16.0.4494.1000 or
later
Office Professional Plus 2013 (MSI) or Office Standard 2013 Version ✅
(MSI)* 15.0.4937.1000 or
later
Office 2016 for Mac Version ✅
16.0.9318.1000 or
later
Outlook mobile for iOS Version 2.75.0 or ✅
later
Outlook mobile for Android Version 2.2.145 or ✅
later
Exchange Online requirements
Microsoft Exchange stores the add-in manifests within your organization's tenant. The admin
deploying add-ins and the users receiving those add-ins must be on a version of Exchange
Online that supports OAuth authentication.
To find out which configuration is in use, check with your organization's Exchange admin. You
can verify OAuth connectivity per user by using the Test-OAuthConnectivity PowerShell cmdlet.
Exchange Online user role requirements
Use the Exchange admin center (EAC) to assign permissions to users. The following steps detail
the permissions required to view and modify deployed add-ins.
1. Sign in to the classic EAC with an account with appropriate permissions.

--- Page 1717 of 2193 ---
2. Go to Permissions and then select User Roles.
3. Select an existing role assignment policy or create a new policy.
4. Type a name for the policy if you're creating a new policy.
5. Select the following roles: My Custom Apps, My MarketPlace Apps, and My
ReadWriteMailbox Apps.
6. Select Save.
７ Note
These roles are selected by default.
For more information, see Manage role groups in Exchange Online. For a detailed description
of the different roles, see Role assignment policies in Exchange Online.
Check the AppsForOfficeEnabled parameter
If you're deploying Office add-ins and none are showing up, then as a first troubleshooting
step, use the Get-OrganizationConfig | fl AppsForOfficeEnabled PowerShell command. If the
query returns a value of False, set this parameter to True using the Set-OrganizationConfig -
AppsForOfficeEnabled:$True command. The add-ins should then appear as expected.
We don't recommend that the AppsForOfficeEnabled parameter be set to False. A value of
False overrides all the Administrative and User role settings and prevent any new apps from
being activated by any user in the organization.
Admin requirements
To deploy an add-in through centralized deployment, you need to be an Exchange admin in
the organization.
７ Note
An Exchange admin can deploy an add-in if they add the Application Administrator role
or set the App Registrations property to true in Microsoft Entra admin center, as shown in
the following image:

--- Page 1718 of 2193 ---

Centralized Deployment Compatibility Checker
By using the Centralized Deployment Compatibility Checker, you can verify whether the users
in your tenant are set up to use centralized deployment for Word, Excel, and PowerPoint. The
Compatibility Checker isn't required for Outlook support. Download and install the
compatibility checker .
７ Note
The Compatibility Checker currently isn't supported in any of the sovereign or government
clouds (GCC, GCC-H, DoD, AirGap, Gallatin).
Run the compatibility checker
1. Start an elevated PowerShell.exe window.
2. Run the following command:
PowerShell
Import-Module O365CompatibilityChecker
3. Run the Invoke-CompatibilityCheck command:
PowerShell

--- Page 1719 of 2193 ---
Invoke-CompatibilityCheck
This command prompts you for TenantDomain (for example,
TailspinToysIncorporated.onmicrosoft.com) and TenantAdmin credentials, and then
requests consent.
７ Note
Depending on the number of users in your tenant, the checker can complete in
minutes or hours.
When the tool finishes running, it produces an output file in comma-separated (.csv) format.
The tool saves the file to the current working directory by default. The output file contains the
following information:
User name.
User ID (User's email address).
Centralized Deployment ready - If the remaining items are true.
Microsoft 365 plan - The plan of Office they're licensed for.
Microsoft 365 Activated - If they activated Microsoft 365.
Supported Mailbox - If they are on an OAuth-enabled mailbox.
If your Microsoft 365 reports show anonymous user names instead of actual user names, fix
this issue by changing the reports setting in Microsoft 365 admin center. For detailed steps, see
Microsoft 365 reports show anonymous user names instead of actual user names.
７ Note
Multifactor authentication isn't supported when using the Central Deployment PowerShell
module. The module only works with Basic authentication.
User and group assignments
The centralized deployment feature currently supports most groups supported by Microsoft
Entra ID, including:
Microsoft 365 groups.
Distribution lists.
Dynamic groups.
Security groups.

--- Page 1720 of 2193 ---
７ Note
The feature doesn't currently support non-mail-enabled security groups.
Centralized deployment supports assignments to individual users, groups, and everyone in the
tenant. Centralized deployment supports users in top-level groups (groups without parent
groups), but not users in nested groups (groups that have parent groups).
Take a look at the following example where Sandra, Sheila, and the Sales Department group are
assigned to an add-in. Because the West Coast Sales Department is a nested group, Bert and
Fred aren't assigned to an add-in.

Find out if a group contains nested groups
The easiest way to detect if a group contains nested groups is to view the group contact card
within Outlook. If you enter the group name within the To field of an email and then select the
group name when it resolves, it shows you if it contains users or nested groups. In the
following example, the Members tab of the Outlook contact card for the Test Group shows no
users and only two sub groups.

--- Page 1721 of 2193 ---

You can do the opposite query by resolving the group to see if it's a member of any group. In
the following example, you can see under the Membership tab of the Outlook contact card
that Sub Group 1 is a member of the Test Group.

Alternately, you can use the Microsoft Graph API to run queries to find the list of groups within
a group. For more information, see Manage groups in Microsoft Graph.
Contact Microsoft for support
If you or your users encounter problems loading the add-in while using centrally deployed
Microsoft 365 apps for the web (Word, Excel, etc.), contact Microsoft support. Provide the
following information about your Microsoft 365 environment in the support ticket.
ﾉ Expand table
Platform Debug information
Microsoft 365 Charles/Fiddler logs
Tenant ID (learn how)
CorrelationID: View the source of one of the Office pages and look for the
Correlation ID value and send it to support. For example:
<input name=" **wdCorrelationId**" type="hidden" value=" **{BC17079E-

--- Page 1722 of 2193 ---
Platform Debug information
505F-3000-C177-26A8E27EB623}**">
<input name="user_id" type="hidden" value="1003bffd96933623"></form>
Rich clients Charles/Fiddler logs
(Windows, Mac) Build numbers of the client app (preferably as a screenshot from
File/Account)
Related content
Deploy add-ins in the admin center.
Manage add-ins in the admin center.
Centralized Deployment FAQ.
Upgrade your Microsoft 365 for business users to the latest version.
Last updated on 03/19/2026

--- Page 1723 of 2193 ---
Deploy Office Add-ins in the Microsoft 365
admin center
７ Note
The integrated apps portal is the recommended and most feature-rich way for most
customers to centrally deploy Office Add-ins to users and groups within your
organization. If that method isn't available for your organization, use the add-in portal as
described in Deploy an Office Add-in using the admin center later in this article.
Office Add-ins help you personalize your documents and streamline the way you access
information on the web. As an admin, you can deploy Office Add-ins for the users in your
organization by using the centralized deployment feature in the Microsoft 365 admin center .
For more information, see Start using your Office Add-in .
For more information on how to determine if your organization can support centralized
deployment, see Determine if centralized deployment of Office Add-ins works for your
organization.
To learn more about managing add-ins after deployment, see Manage add-ins in the Microsoft
365 admin center.
７ Note
There are other ways for deploying Office Add-ins in certain scenarios. For more
information, see Deploy and publish Office Add-ins.
Recommended rollout strategy for Office Add-ins
To roll out add-ins by using a phased approach, follow these steps:
1. Roll out the add-in to a small set of business stakeholders and members of the IT
department. If the deployment is successful, move to the next step.
2. Roll out the add-in to more individuals within the business. Again, evaluate the results
and, if successful, continue with full deployment.
3. Perform a full rollout to all users.
Depending on the size of the target audience, you can add or remove roll-out steps.

--- Page 1724 of 2193 ---
Deploy an Office Add-in using the admin center
Before you begin, see Determine if centralized deployment of add-ins works for your
organization.
To deploy an Office Add-in using the Microsoft 365 admin center, follow these steps:
1. Sign in to the Microsoft 365 admin center .
2. From the left navigation bar, select … Show all, and then select Settings > Integrated
apps.
3. Select the Add-ins link near the top of the Integrated apps page.
4. Select Deploy Add-in at the top of the page.


--- Page 1725 of 2193 ---
5. Select Next on the Deploy a new add-in wizard.
6. Select an option and follow the instructions. Office Store refers to Microsoft Marketplace.

7. If you select the option to add an add-in from Microsoft Marketplace, make your add-in
selection.
You can view available add-ins by categories: Suggested for you, Rating, or Name. After
you select an add-in, accept the terms and conditions to proceed.

--- Page 1726 of 2193 ---

７ Note
When you use the Microsoft Marketplace (Microsoft Store) option, updates and
enhancements are automatically deployed to users.
8. If you choose to upload a custom add-in, carry out the following steps:
a. In the Choose how to upload app section, do one of the following steps:
Select the option to upload the manifest, and then select the Choose File button.
Navigate to the add-in's manifest and select it.
） Important

--- Page 1727 of 2193 ---
Only add-ins that use the add-in only manifest can be deployed from the
add-in portal at this time. To deploy an add-in that uses the Microsoft 365
unified manifest, you must use the integrated apps portal. See Office Add-
ins manifest for information about the difference.
Select the option to provide a URL for the manifest, and then fill in the URL.
b. Select Upload.
9. On the next page, select Everyone, Specific users/groups, or Just me to specify who the
add-in is deployed to. Use the Search box to find specific users or groups.

７ Note

--- Page 1728 of 2193 ---
To learn about other states that apply to an add-in, see Add-in states.
10. Select Deploy.
11. A green checkmark appears when the add-in is deployed. To test the add-in, follow the
on-page instructions.
７ Note
Users might need to relaunch the relevant Office application to view the add-in icon
on the ribbon. Office Add-ins can take 24-72 hours to appear on the ribbon.
12. When finished, select Next. If you deployed the add-in to just yourself, select Change
who has access to add-in to deploy to more users.
If you deploy the add-in to other members of your organization, follow the instructions to
announce the deployment of the add-in.
It's good practice to inform users and groups that the deployed add-in is available.
Consider sending an email that describes when and how to use the add-in. Include or link
to Help content or FAQs that might help users if they have problems with the add-in.
Considerations when assigning an add-in to users and groups
Exchange admins can assign an add-in to everyone or to specific users and groups. Each
option has implications:
Everyone: This option assigns the add-in to every user in the organization. Use this
option sparingly and only for add-ins that are truly universal to your organization.
Users: If you assign an add-in to an individual user, and then deploy the add-in to a new
user, you must first add the new user.
Groups: If you assign an add-in to a group, users who are added to the group are
automatically assigned the add-in. When a user is removed from a group, the user loses
access to the add-in. In either case, no additional action is required from the admin.
Just me: If you assign an add-in to just yourself, the add-in is assigned to only your
account, which is ideal for testing the add-in.
The right option for your organization depends on your configuration. However, we
recommend making assignments by using groups. As an admin, you might find it easier to
manage add-ins by using groups and controlling the membership of those groups rather than

--- Page 1729 of 2193 ---
assigning individual users each time. In some situations, you might want to restrict access to a
small set of users by assigning specific users manually.
Security and permission considerations for admins
Office Add-ins combine a manifest file that contains some metadata about the add-in, but
most importantly points to a web application that contains the code and logic. Office Add-ins
can range in their capabilities. For example, add-ins can:
Display data.
Provide contextual services by reading a user's document.
Provide value to that user by reading and writing data to and from a user's document.
For more information about the types and capabilities of Office Add-ins, see Office Add-ins
platform overview, especially the section "Anatomy of an Office Add-in."
To interact with the user's document, the add-in needs to declare what permission it needs in
the manifest. A five-level JavaScript API access-permissions model provides the basis for
privacy and security for users of task pane add-ins. Most add-ins in Microsoft Marketplace are
level read/write document with most add-ins supporting at least the read document level. For
more information about the permission levels, see Requesting permissions for API use in
content and task pane add-ins.
When you update a manifest, typical changes are to an add-in's icon and text. Occasionally,
add-in commands change. However, the permissions of the add-in don't change. The web
application where the code and logic for the add-in runs can change at any time, which is the
nature of web applications.
Updates for add-ins happen as follows:
Line-of-business (LOB) add-in: In this case, where an admin uploaded a manifest, the
admin must upload the new manifest file to support metadata changes. The next time a
user starts the relevant Microsoft 365 productivity application, the add-in updates.
７ Note
To deploy the update, select the LOB add-in and choose the Update Button in the
bottom right corner.
Microsoft Marketplace add-in: When an admin selected an add-in from Microsoft
Marketplace and then the developer updated the manifest in Microsoft Marketplace, the

--- Page 1730 of 2193 ---
admin doesn't have to take any action. The next time a user starts the relevant Microsoft
365 productivity application, the add-in updates.
Related content
Deploy and manage Office add-ins.
Manage add-ins in the admin center.
Build your first Word task pane add-in.
Minors and acquiring add-ins from the store.
Use Centralized Deployment PowerShell cmdlets to manage add-ins.
Troubleshoot: User not seeing add-ins.
Last updated on 03/16/2026

--- Page 1731 of 2193 ---
Manage add-ins in the Microsoft 365
admin center
 Tip
The integrated apps portal is the recommended and most feature-rich way for most
customers to centrally deploy Office add-ins to users and groups within your organization.
Office Add-ins, also known as Integrated Apps, help users in your organization to personalize
documents and streamline access to information on the web. An admin can centrally manage
add-ins that are deployed to users and groups via the Microsoft 365 admin center. For
example, an admin can:
Enable or disable add-ins.
Change which users or groups have access to add-ins.
Remove add-ins that are no longer used.
For more information about installing add-ins from the Microsoft 365 admin center, see
Deploy Office Add-ins in the Microsoft 365 admin center.
Add-in states in the Microsoft 365 admin center
An add-in can be in one of the following states:
ﾉ Expand table
State How the state occurs Effect
Enabled Admin downloads the add-in in the Microsoft 365 Users and groups assigned the
admin center and assigns it to users or groups. add-in have access to the add-in.
Not Admin downloads the add-in in the Microsoft 365 Unassigned users and groups
assigned admin center but the add-in isn't assigned to a user or can't access the add-in.
group.
Removed Admin removes the add-in from the Microsoft 365 No users can access the add-in.
admin center.
Choosing not to assign an add-in versus removing it might make sense if the add-in is only
used during specific times of the year. If no one is using an add-in anymore, consider removing
the add-in from the Microsoft 365 admin center.

--- Page 1732 of 2193 ---
Remove an add-in from the Microsoft 365 admin
center
To remove an add-in that you deployed and no longer need, follow these steps:
1. Sign in to the Microsoft 365 admin center .
2. From the left navigation bar, select … Show all, and then select Settings to expand it.
3. Under Settings, select Integrated apps.
4. In the Integrated apps page, select the deployed add-in that you want to remove.
5. In the add-in properties pane, make sure Overview is selected.
6. In the Remove apps window, select Yes, I'm sure I want to remove the app and
associated data, and then select Remove.
Edit user access to an add-in in the Microsoft 365
admin center
After you deploy an add-in, you can manage user access to the add-in. To manage user access
to an add-in, follow these steps:
1. Sign in to the Microsoft 365 admin center .
2. From the left navigation bar, select … Show all, and then select Settings to expand it.
3. Under Settings, select Integrated apps.
4. In the Integrated apps page, select the deployed add-in that you want to edit.
5. In the add-in properties pane, select Users.
6. Under Assigned users, add or remove users who should have access to the add-in, and
then select Update.
Manage add-in downloads by enabling or
disabling Microsoft Marketplace
） Important

--- Page 1733 of 2193 ---
In the Microsoft 365 admin center, Microsoft Marketplace is sometimes referred to as
Office Store.
As an admin, you can manage access to the Microsoft Marketplace and control whether users
can download add-ins. Managing access to the Microsoft Marketplace is important for the
following reasons:
Ensure users can download Office Add-ins and take advantage of their features.
Ensure users can access only add-ins approved through centralized deployment.
Use this setting if you want to:
Allow users to discover and install approved add-ins themselves.
Block all user-initiated add-in downloads and rely only on centralized deployment.
Enable or disable access to the Microsoft Marketplace for all
apps
Support for enabling or disabling access to the Microsoft Marketplace starts in the following
versions:
Office on Windows: 16.0.9001.
Office on Mac: 16.10.18011401.
Office on iOS: 2.9.18010804.
Office for the web.
To enable or disable access to the Microsoft Marketplace and downloading of add-ins, follow
these steps:
1. Sign in to the Microsoft 365 admin center .
2. From the left navigation bar, select … Show all, and then select Settings to expand it.
3. Under Settings, select Org settings .
4. In the Org settings page, make sure Services is selected, and then select User owned
apps and services.
5. In the User owned apps and services pane:
Select Let users access the Office Store to give users access to the Microsoft
Marketplace and allow users to download. This setting is the default setting.

--- Page 1734 of 2193 ---
Clear Let users access the Office Store to block users from accessing the Microsoft
Marketplace and prevent users from downloading add-ins.

6. Select Save after you choose the desired setting. If the setting is already in the desired
state, select the X in the top-right corner to cancel.
The Let users access the Office Store setting controls all users' ability to acquire the
following add-ins from Microsoft Marketplace:
Add-ins for non-subscription Word, Excel, and PowerPoint on Windows and Mac
Add-ins for subscription Microsoft 365
When you disable access to the Microsoft Marketplace, a user who tries to access it sees
the following message:
Office store not available. Unfortunately, your organization has disabled access to the
Office Store. Please contact your administrator to get access to the store.
Important limitations and exceptions
Access to the Microsoft Marketplace doesn't apply to Microsoft Outlook add-ins. To
manage Microsoft Outlook add-ins, see Specify the administrators and users who can
install and manage add-ins for Outlook in Exchange Online.
Even if users can download add-ins from Microsoft Marketplace, they can't launch or use
the add-in in the client.
To prevent a user from signing into the Microsoft Marketplace by using a personal
Microsoft account, restrict sign in to use only an organizational account. For more
information, see Identity, authentication, and authorization in Office 2016.
If you prevent users from accessing Microsoft Marketplace, they also can't Sideload Office
Add-ins for testing from a network share.
User owned apps and services settings for educational tenants

--- Page 1735 of 2193 ---
Additional access options are available for educational tenants in the User owned apps and
services pane. You can control access based on whether a user is:
A faculty, staff, and other non-student users.
An adult student.
A non-adult student.

The user's license information defines the type of user.
A faculty, staff, and other non-student users: A user who doesn't have an educational
license.
An adult or non-adult student: A user who has an educational license. The Age Group
property checks whether the student is an adult.
For more information, see the following articles:
Assign or unassign licenses for users in the Microsoft 365 admin center.
Add or update a user's profile information and settings in the Microsoft Entra admin
center.
End-user experience with add-ins in Office
applications
After you deploy an add-in, users interact with the add-in directly in their Office apps. An add-
in appears on all platforms that the add-in supports. For more information, see Start using your

--- Page 1736 of 2193 ---
Office Add-in .
Some add-ins support commands that appear in the ribbon. For example, the Citations add-in
shows the command Search Citation in the ribbon:

If an add-in doesn't support commands that appear in the ribbon, the user can view the add-in
via Manage your apps. They can also view all add-ins that are deployed in the organization in
Manage your apps.
View add-ins in Manage your apps
To view add-ins in Manage your apps, select the tab based on which application you want to
view add-ins for:
Word, Excel, or PowerPoint.
Outlook.
Word, Excel, or PowerPoint
View add-ins in Word, Excel, or PowerPoint
To view add-ins in Manage your apps in Word, Excel, or PowerPoint, follow these steps:
1. On the Home ribbon of the app, select Add-ins.
2. In the pane that opens, select + More Add-ins.
3. At the bottom of the left-hand navigation pane of the Apps page, select Manage
your apps to see a list of all deployed apps, agents, and add-ins.
4. To see the details of an add-in, select it from the list.
Related content

--- Page 1737 of 2193 ---
Minors and acquiring add-ins from the Microsoft Store.
Last updated on 03/16/2026

--- Page 1738 of 2193 ---
Centralized deployment FAQ
Centralized deployment is a way for a Microsoft 365 admin to deploy Office Add-ins (Word, Excel,
PowerPoint, and Outlook) to users and groups within an organization, provided the organization
meets all requirements for using centralized deployment as outlined in this article. However, note
that the integrated apps portal is the recommended and most feature-rich way for most
customers to centrally deploy Office add-ins to users and groups within your organization. But
add-ins can also be centrally deployed through the Add-in page of the Microsoft 365 admin
center.
How do I know if my organization is set up for
centralized deployment?
Centralized deployment of add-ins requires that users are using apps in Microsoft 365 for
enterprise (and are signed into Microsoft 365 using their organizational log-in credentials) and
have Exchange Online mailboxes. Your subscription directory must either be in, or federated to,
Microsoft Entra ID.
Centralized deployment is only supported for online mailboxes. It doesn't support deployment to
on-premises Exchange mailboxes.
You can use the Centralized Deployment Compatibility Checker to determine if your subscription
is eligible.
How do you target add-in user assignments
with centralized deployment?
Centralized deployment supports assignments to individual users, groups, and everyone in the
tenant. Centralized deployment can be used for users in top-level groups (groups without parent
groups), but not for users in nested groups (groups that have parent groups). Centralized
deployment also supports most Microsoft Entra groups, including Microsoft 365 Groups,
distribution lists, dynamic groups, and security groups.
It's better to use groups assignments instead of individual user assignment for easier
management.

--- Page 1739 of 2193 ---
For more details, see User and Group assignments.
How long does it take for add-ins to show up
for all users?
It can take up to 24 hours for a new add-in deployment to show up for all users. It can take up to
72 hours for add-in updates, changes from turn on or turn off to reflect for users.
How long does it take for add-ins to get
removed for all users?
It can take up to 24 hours for add-in removal to reflect for all users.
As an administrator, how do I manage the user
access to add-ins for my organization?
For easy deployment of add-ins to users, groups, or to your entire organization, we recommend
administrators use centralized deployment whenever deployment through the integrated apps
portal is not suitable.
For more information about managing user access, see:
Manage add-in downloads by turning on/off Microsoft Marketplace across all apps (except
Outlook)
Specify the administrators and users who can install and manage add-ins for Outlook
Will centralized deployment provide admins
the flexibility to choose the deployment
method for Outlook add-ins?
Yes. Centralized deployment provides admins the flexibility to choose one of three deployment
methods for Outlook add-ins during add-in deployment:
Fixed The add-in will be automatically deployed to the assigned users and they won't be able to
remove it from their ribbon.

--- Page 1740 of 2193 ---
Available Users can install the add-in in Outlook by choosing Home > Get More add-ins >
Admin-managed.
Optional The add-in is deployed automatically to the assigned users, but they can choose to
remove it.
７ Note
Integrated Apps don't have this option available; however, admins can still use the legacy
Add-in page to perform this under Settings > Integrated Apps, and then selecting the Add-
in link.

Can admins update Line-of-Business (LOB)
add-ins?
Yes. Admins can upload a new manifest file to support metadata changes for admin-deployed
LOB add-ins. The add-in updates the next time the Microsoft 365 app starts. The web application
can change at any time.
For more information, see line-of-business add-in.
Can admins turn off add-ins?
Yes. Admins can turn on or off the add-ins they deploy for all users from the Microsoft admin
center.
For more information, see Add-in states.
Can admins delete or remove add-ins?
Yes. Admins can delete add-ins they deployed for all users from the Microsoft admin center.
For more information, see Delete an add-in.

--- Page 1741 of 2193 ---
Can admins deploy paid add-ins from
Microsoft Marketplace using centralized
deployment?
Yes.
Which admin role do I need to manage add-ins
for my organization?
Global Admin is the recommended role with complete access to the add-in management
lifecycle. If you're the person who purchased your Microsoft 365 Business subscription, you're the
Global admin.
Your subscription comes with a set of admin roles that you can assign to other users in your
organization. Each admin role maps to common business functions and gives people in your
organization permissions to perform specific tasks in the Microsoft 365 admin center.
For more information, see Assign admin roles.
How many add-ins can I deploy?
A total of 200 Excel, Outlook, PowerPoint, and Word add-ins can be deployed by admins within
their tenant.
Why do add-in deployment times for Word,
Excel, and PowerPoint differ compared to
Outlook add-ins?
There are architectural differences between add-in deployments for Word, Excel, and PowerPoint
vs Outlook.

--- Page 1742 of 2193 ---
Deploy Office Add-ins in Government
Community Cloud High (GCC
High) environments
Deploy Office Add-ins in Government Community Cloud High (GCC High) by using centralized
deployment in the Microsoft 365 admin center. This article explains two deployment options so
you can deploy add-ins when Marketplace access isn't available.
Deploy an Office Add-in using the manifest XML URL
First try to deploy the add-in using the manifest XML URL. If the steps in this section fail, follow
the steps in the next section Deploy an Office Add-in using the manifest XML file.
To deploy an Office Add-in using the manifest XML URL, follow these steps:
1. In your browser, go to the Microsoft Marketplace .
2. Search for and then select the tile of the add-in you want to deploy. Make sure to select the
tile and not the Get it now button. The details page opens for the add-in.
3. In the URL for the details page, find and copy the AssetID value. The AssetID value is the
value at the end of the URL:
https://marketplace.microsoft.com/<locale>/product/<AssetID>
For example, in the URL:
https://marketplace.microsoft.com/en-us/product/WA1234567989
The AssetID value is:
WA1234567989
4. Paste the AssetID value to the following URL:
https://store.office.com/app/download?assetid=<AssetID>
For example, using the example AssetID value of WA1234567989 from the previous step, the
URL is:

--- Page 1743 of 2193 ---
https://store.office.com/app/download?assetid=WA1234567989
If you go to this URL, it displays the manifest XML for the add-in.
5. In a new browser window or tab, sign in to the Microsoft 365 admin center .
6. From the left navigation bar, select … Show all, and then select Settings to expand it.
7. Under Settings, select Integrated apps .
8. In the Integrated apps page, make sure the Deployed apps tab is selected, and then select
Upload custom apps.
9. In the Upload Apps to deploy page of the Deploy New App pane:
a. In the App type dropdown menu, select Office Add-in.
b. Under Choose how to upload app, select Provide link to manifest file, copy and paste
the manifest XML URL previously determined into the text box, and then select Validate.
10. Once the manifest XML file is validated, the message Manifest file validated appears. Select
Next.
11. In the Add users page of the Deploy New App pane, under Assign users select the users
you want to have access to the add-in, and then select Next.
12. In the Accept permissions requests page of the Deploy New App pane, review the
permissions that the add-in is requesting. If you accept the permissions, select Next.
13. In the Review and finish deployment page of the Deploy New App pane, review the
deployment settings, and then select Finish Deployment.
14. When the deployment completes, the message Deployment completed appears. Select
Done.
Deploy an Office Add-in using the manifest XML file
If the deployment of the add-in using the manifest XML URL fails, use the steps in this section
instead.
To deploy an Office Add-in using the manifest XML file, follow these steps:
1. In your browser, go to the Microsoft Marketplace .

--- Page 1744 of 2193 ---
2. Search for and then select the tile of the add-in you want to deploy. Make sure to select the
tile and not the Get it now button. The details page opens for the add-in.
3. In the URL for the details page, find and copy the AssetID value. The AssetID value is the
value at the end of the URL:
https://marketplace.microsoft.com/<locale>/product/<AssetID>
For example, in the URL:
https://marketplace.microsoft.com/en-us/product/WA1234567989
The AssetID value is:
WA1234567989
4. Paste the AssetID value to the following URL:
https://store.office.com/app/download?assetid=<AssetID>
For example, using the example AssetID value of WA1234567989 from the previous step, the
URL is:
https://store.office.com/app/download?assetid=WA1234567989
5. In a new browser window or tab, go to the URL determined in the previous step. The page
at this URL displays the manifest XML for the add-in.
6. Right-click on the page, select Save As or Save Page As (depending on your browser), and
then save the manifest XML file to a known location on your device. Make sure the file is
saved as an .xml file with the .xml extension.
7. In a new browser window or tab, sign in to the Microsoft 365 admin center .
8. From the left navigation bar, select … Show all, and then select Settings to expand it.
9. Under Settings, select Integrated apps .
10. In the Integrated apps page, select Upload custom apps.
11. In the Upload Apps to deploy page of the Deploy New App pane:
a. In the App type dropdown menu, select Office Add-in.

--- Page 1745 of 2193 ---
b. Under Choose how to upload app, select Upload manifest file (.xml) from device and
then select Choose File.
c. Browse to the location where you saved the manifest XML file, select the file, and then
select Open.
12. Once the manifest XML file is validated, the message Manifest file validated appears. Select
Next.
13. In the Add users page of the Deploy New App pane, under Assign users select the users
you want to have access to the add-in, and then select Next.
14. In the Accept permissions requests page of the Deploy New App pane, review the
permissions that the add-in is requesting. If you accept the permissions, select Next.
15. In the Review and finish deployment page of the Deploy New App pane, review the
deployment settings, and then select Finish Deployment.
16. When the deployment completes, the message Deployment completed appears. Select
Done.
） Important
If there's an error concerning Admin Consent, the add-in isn't GCC High compatible. The
Developer of the add-in should be contacted to allow their add-in to be GCC High
compliant.
Last updated on 06/05/2026

--- Page 1746 of 2193 ---
Manage Industry news
Article • 02/17/2023
７ Note
Bing news & Industry updates are available only for en-US at this time.
To provide your users with up-to-date news headlines about your industry and info from
your organization, use the News service to enable a customized news feed for your
organization. You can also enable a daily Industry Updates email, and manage settings
for the Bing homepage and Microsoft Edge new tab page.
What your users will see
You have the option to send your users a daily Industry Updates email with headlines
and links to full articles. Users can customize their email updates by following additional
topics, choosing when the update is delivered, excluding articles behind paywalls, and
selecting the number of articles they want to see.
Signed-in users who go to the Bing homepage see your industry's news feed under the
personalized info for your organization.

--- Page 1747 of 2193 ---
They can also see company, industry, and internal news or personalized work
information on their Microsoft Edge new tab page.
News settings
As an admin, you control the News feed settings for your organization, including the
selected industry and the Bing homepage, the Microsoft Edge new tab page (Starting
with the release of Edge 87), and the email experiences.
1. In the Microsoft 365 admin center, go to Settings > Org settings > Services >
News .

--- Page 1748 of 2193 ---
2. In the News panel, click the General tab.
3. In the Industry list, select your organization's industries. This determines the
general news that appears in your organization news feed. Microsoft may pre-
select an industry using information from your account. You can remove or add
industries by updating the Industry list.
4. In the Topics field, enter topics that you want see news articles about. Your users
can't change these topics.
5. You can block articles containing keywords in the Exclude content field. For
example, to avoid articles containing the keyword “bake” from showing up in the
news feed, add the keyword “bake” in the Exclude content field. Avoid including
general terms (the, it, and, etc.); they can block relevant content from appearing in
your enterprise news feeds.
6. Select Save. It may take up to 24 hours for changes to appear.
Industry updates in email
You can send a daily email update with relevant industry news to your users' inboxes. To
set daily email updates for users:
1. In the Microsoft 365 admin center, go to Settings > Org settings > Services >
News .
2. In the News panel, click the Industry Updates tab.
3. Select Send daily email updates to send an email to your users.
4. To give users the ability to customize the news they get in their email updates,
select Allow users to customize their own topics.
Bing homepage
You can customize the Bing homepage to include news about your industry.
Toggle news for Business or Enterprise plans
1. In the Microsoft 365 admin center, go to Settings > Org settings > Services >
News .

--- Page 1749 of 2193 ---
2. In the News panel, click the Bing homepage tab, and select Include on Bing
homepage.
The industry news appears under the personalized info from your organization on
Bing.com.
Toggle news types for Education plans
1. In the Microsoft 365 admin center, go to Settings > Org settings > Services >
News .
2. In the News panel, click the Bing homepage tab, you have the option to select
whether trending news or industry news show for your users.
Microsoft Edge new tab page
When your users sign in to Microsoft Edge (release 87 or higher) with a valid work or
school account, they can see news tailored to your organization.
1. In the Microsoft 365 admin center, go to Settings > Org settings > Services >
News .
2. In the News panel, click Microsoft Edge new tab page.
3. Select Allow Microsoft 365 content on the new tab page. When enabled, users
can customize their new tab to show information from Microsoft 365, including
recommended and recent files, along with frequently used SharePoint sites and
other information.

--- Page 1750 of 2193 ---
4. Select Show company information and industry news on the new tab page. News
articles about your organization and industry appear for users that choose to see
articles on their new tab.
Related content
Microsoft Search
Manage your data and service
Feedback
Was this page helpful?  Yes  No
Provide product feedback

--- Page 1751 of 2193 ---
Manage Office Scripts settings
10/17/2025
Office Scripts allows users to automate tasks by recording, editing, and running scripts in Excel.
Office Scripts works with Power Automate, and users run scripts on workbooks by using the
Excel Online (Business) connector. Microsoft 365 admins can manage Office Scripts settings
from the Microsoft 365 admin center.
） Important
We’re moving the management of Office Scripts admin controls from the Microsoft 365
admin center to the Microsoft 365 Cloud Policy service. For more information, see Office
Scripts admin controls transition.
７ Note
To manage Office Scripts settings, you must be at least an Office Apps admin. For more
information, see About admin roles.
Manage availability of Office Scripts and sharing of
scripts
1. In the Microsoft 365 admin center, go to the Settings > Org settings > Services tab.
2. Select Office Scripts.
3. Office Scripts is turned on by default, and everyone in your organization can access and
use the feature and share scripts. To turn off Office Scripts for your organization, clear the
Let users automate their tasks in Excel checkbox.
4. If you previously turned off Office Scripts for your organization and you want to turn it
back on, select Let users automate their tasks in Excel, and then specify who can access
and use the feature:
To allow all users in your organization to access and use Office Scripts, leave
Everyone (the default) selected.
To allow only members of a specific group to access and use Office Scripts, select
Specific group, and then enter the name or email alias of the group to add it to the

--- Page 1752 of 2193 ---
allowlist. You may add only one group to the allowlist, and it must be one of the
following types:
Microsoft 365 group
Distribution group
Security group
Mail-enabled security group
To learn more about the different types of groups, see Compare groups.
5. To allow users with access to Office Scripts to share their scripts with others in your
organization, select Let users with access to Office Scripts share their scripts with others
in the organization. Sharing scripts outside of an organization isn't allowed.
７ Note
If you later turn off script sharing for your organization, users will still be able to run
previously-shared scripts.
6. Specify which users with access to Office Scripts can share their scripts:
To allow all users with access to Office Scripts to share their scripts, leave Everyone
(the default) selected.
To allow only members of a specific group with access to Office Scripts to share their
scripts, select Specific group, and then enter the name or email alias of the group to
add it to the allowlist. You may add only one group to the allowlist, and it must be
one of the following types:
Microsoft 365 group
Distribution group
Security group
Mail-enabled security group
To learn more about the different types of groups, see Compare groups.
7. To allow users to run their Office Scripts inside Power Automate flows, select Let users
with access to Office Scripts run their scripts with Power Automate. This allows users to
add flow steps with the Excel Online (Business) connector Run script option.
To allow all users with access to Office Scripts to use their scripts in flows, leave
Everyone (the default) selected.
To allow only members of a specific group with access to Office Scripts to use their
scripts in flows, select Specific group, and then enter the name or email alias of the

--- Page 1753 of 2193 ---
group to add it to the allowlist. You may add only one group to the allowlist, and it
must be one of the following types:
Microsoft 365 group
Distribution group
Security group
Mail-enabled security group
To learn more about the different types of groups, see Compare groups.
To learn more about using Office Scripts with Power Automate, see Run Office
Scripts with Power Automate.
8. Select Save.
It can take up to 48 hours for changes to Office Scripts settings to take effect.
Manage the availability of Office Scripts in Excel
desktop by using Group Policy
Group Policy has a setting to control whether Office Scripts (including the relevant commands
on the Automate tab) are available for use.
If you enable this policy setting, Office Scripts won't be available for use in the installed Excel
app on a desktop. You'll find Office Scripts settings under User Configuration\Administrative
Templates\Microsoft Excel 2016\Miscellaneous in the Group Policy Management Console.
After applying this policy setting, users will still see the Automate tab, but the Office Scripts
and Automate options will be greyed out. They can select the Record Actions button, but if
they do, they'll see the following message: "You don't have access to Office Scripts. Your
organization's admin may have turned off this feature, or you don't meet the requirements."
To learn more, see Use Group Policy to configure update settings for Microsoft 365 Apps.
Office Scripts admin controls transition
The management of Office Scripts admin controls is moving from the Microsoft 365 admin
center to the Microsoft 365 Cloud Policy service. After October 27, 2025, admins will no longer
be able to make changes to their old settings in the Microsoft 365 admin center. Any existing
settings need to be moved to the Cloud Policy service by this date to ensure that they are
honored. If you don't configure the settings by then, then all three will be set to the default
value of enabled.

--- Page 1754 of 2193 ---
The three settings moving to the Cloud Policy service are:
Let users automate their tasks in Excel
Let users with access to Office Scripts share their scripts with others in the organization
Let users with access to Office Scripts run their scripts with Power Automate
You only need to take action if you've changed these settings from their default value of
enabled. If you haven't changed the settings, then no action is required. If you've customized
any of the settings, then you need to configure their equivalent in the Microsoft 365 Cloud
Policy service before October 20, 2025. For an overview of how to manage policies using the
Cloud Policy service, see Overview of Cloud Policy service for Microsoft 365.
Next steps
Because Office Scripts works with Power Automate, we recommend that you review your
existing Microsoft Purview Data Loss Prevention (DLP) policies to ensure your organization's
data remains protected while users use Office Scripts. For more information, see Set a policy to
help prevent data loss.
Related content
Office Scripts technical documentation (link page)
Introduction to Office Scripts in Excel (article)
Sharing Office Scripts in Excel (article)
Record, edit, and create Office Scripts in Excel (tutorial)

--- Page 1755 of 2193 ---
Find your Microsoft 365 subscriptions
partner or reseller
07/08/2025
Check out all of our small business content on Small business help & learning .
As an admin, you can work with a partner to buy, activate, and renew Microsoft 365
subscriptions through one of our Volume Licensing programs.
Before you begin
You must be a Global Administrator to do the tasks described in this article. For more
information, see About admin roles in the Microsoft 365 admin center.
Ｕ Caution
Global Administrators have almost unlimited access to your organization's settings and
most of its data. To help keep your organization secure, we recommend that you limit the
number of Global Administrators as much as possible.
Find a new partner or reseller
If you're ready to buy or renew Microsoft 365 through Open Volume Licensing, or you simply
want more information about working with a partner, choose one of the following options.
Search for a Microsoft-certified service partner
Call Microsoft Volume Licensing
Find contact information for a partner you worked
with previously
In some cases, you can find information in the Microsoft 365 admin center for partners you
worked with previously. Keep in mind that this information might be out of date. We
recommend that you contact the person or department responsible for purchasing in your
organization to find out which partner you should work with.

--- Page 1756 of 2193 ---
View partner info in the Microsoft 365 admin
center
1. In the Microsoft 365 admin center , go to the Settings > Partner relationships page.
2. If you have a partner, the partner's name and relationship to your organization is listed
here. To view partner contact information, like the phone number and email address,
select the partner name.
Related content
Help for partners

--- Page 1757 of 2193 ---
Manage Microsoft feedback for
your organization
As the admin of a Microsoft 365 organization, there are several policies to help you manage the
feedback collection and the customer engagement experience of your users when using
Microsoft 365 applications and Microsoft 365 Copilot. All policies described in this article govern
feedback for both Microsoft 365 applications and Microsoft 365 Copilot. You can create and use
existing Microsoft Entra groups in your organization for each of these policies. With these
policies, you can control how different departments in your organization can send feedback to
Microsoft.
Microsoft reviews all feedback submitted by customers. Microsoft uses this feedback to improve
the product experiences for users, including by improving the quality of AI-generated responses
and troubleshooting product issues. Keeping the feedback experiences enabled allows you to see
what your users are saying about the Microsoft products they're using. The feedback we collect
from your users is available in the Microsoft 365 admin center .
７ Note
Microsoft acts as a data processor for your tenant's feedback. As the tenant administrator,
you can manage your tenant's feedback in the Microsoft 365 admin center. For more
information, see How can I see my user's feedback?
To learn more about the types of feedback and how Microsoft uses user feedback, see Learn
about Microsoft feedback for your organization.
The following table represents which apps and services are currently connected to the feedback
policies shown in the Feedback policies table. For examples of in-product feedback and surveys,
see Feedback types.
ﾉ Expand table
Apps & Services In-product feedback In- Metadata Customer
product collection engagement
surveys
Access Yes Yes Yes Yes

--- Page 1758 of 2193 ---
Apps & Services In-product feedback In- Metadata Customer
product collection engagement
surveys
Clipchamp Yes Yes Yes No
Excel Yes Yes Yes Yes
Forms Yes Yes Yes Yes
Intune Company Yes Yes Yes Yes
Portal (Android)
Microsoft 365 Yes Yes Yes Yes
Copilot
Microsoft Stream Yes Yes Yes Yes
(Android, iOS)
Microsoft Yes Yes Yes Yes
Whiteboard
Microsoft365.com Yes Yes Yes Yes
OneNote Yes Yes Yes Yes
OneDrive Some settings are managed by other
controls. For more information, see
Prevent users from contacting
Microsoft directly.
Outlook Yes Yes Yes Yes
PowerPoint Yes Yes Yes Yes
Project Yes Yes Yes Yes
Publisher Yes Yes Yes Yes
SharePoint Yes Yes Yes Yes
Teams Some settings are managed by other Yes
controls. For more information, see
Manage feedback policies in
Microsoft Teams.
Teams Rooms Yes Yes Yes No
To Do Yes Yes Yes Yes
Word Yes Yes Yes Yes

--- Page 1759 of 2193 ---
Apps & Services In-product feedback In- Metadata Customer
product collection engagement
surveys
Visio Yes Yes Yes Yes
Viva Connections Yes No Yes Yes
Viva Engage Yes Yes Yes Yes
Viva Glint Yes Yes Yes Yes
Viva Goals Yes Yes Yes Yes
Viva Insights Yes Yes Yes Yes
Viva Pulse Yes Yes Yes Yes
Feedback policies
） Important
If you're an admin in a United States government environment, see the Feedback policies in
United States government environments section later in this article.
When the following policies are set to Not Configured, it has the same effect as if you set the
policies to Enabled.
ﾉ Expand table
Policy name Control summary
Allow users to access feedback Manage user access to the feedback portal where users can follow up
portal on their feedback and participate in community feedback.
Allow users to submit feedback to Controls feedback entry points across applications.
Microsoft
Allow users to receive and Controls whether surveys appear within product.
respond to in-product surveys
from Microsoft
Allow users to include Allows users to choose relevant files, screen recordings, and
screenshots and attachments screenshots to help Microsoft better understand and troubleshoot their
when they submit feedback to feedback.
Microsoft

--- Page 1760 of 2193 ---
Policy name Control summary
Allow Microsoft to follow up on Determines if user can share contact info with feedback/survey for
feedback submitted by users follow-up by Microsoft. Also allows users to get notified of feedback
status changes. Users can manage communications settings in the
feedback portal.
Allow users to include log files Allows users to include Microsoft generated files such as additional log
and content samples when files and content samples when relevant to feedback they're submitting.
feedback is submitted to Examples may include Microsoft 365 Copilot prompt and response
Microsoft interactions.
７ Note
The Allow users to access the feedback portal policy is only available in Cloud Policy service
for Microsoft 365. This policy isn't available in Group Policy and doesn't have a
corresponding registry key available to set the policy.
Configure policies
To configure these policy settings, you can use Cloud Policy service for Microsoft 365. For more
information, see Overview of Cloud Policy service for Microsoft 365. You can search for
"feedback" or "survey" within Cloud Policy UI to find the policy settings to configure them.
These policy settings are also available if you use Group Policy. To use these policy settings,
download the most current version of the Administrative Template files (ADMX/ADML) . You can
find these policy settings under User Configuration\Policies\Administrative Templates\Microsoft
Office 2016\Privacy\Trust Center.
７ Note
After you apply policies, it can take a few hours for the client applications to update.
Feedback policies in United States government
environments
The following information only applies to United States government customers using Microsoft
365 (or Office 365) Government Community Cloud (GCC), GCC High, or DoD offerings.

--- Page 1761 of 2193 ---
Not all products currently support feedback collection in this environment, but we're
working to implement that support. To prepare for feedback collection, we recommend you
review and configure the policy settings in the way that's appropriate for your organization.
The behavior of the Allow users to submit feedback to Microsoft policy differs from
commercial tenants. When the policy is Not configured (the default), users can submit
restricted feedback only. Setting the policy to Enabled allows users to submit verbatim
feedback, while setting it to Disabled prevents users from submitting feedback entirely.
Restricted feedback: Users can't provide written comments but can only provide
predefined feedback such as giving a thumbs up/down rating or selecting an issue type
from a list of likely issues.
Verbatim feedback: Users can submit more detailed feedback that includes optional
written comments.
No diagnostic logs, prompts, responses, screenshots, attachments, or user files are collected
in any configuration in United States government environments.
The Feedback portal and in-product surveys aren't available in this environment, so setting
these policies don't have any effect at this time.
While the following policies are available to change, changes will have no effect and those
policies will always be treated as Disabled:
Allow users to include screenshots and attachments when they submit feedback to
Microsoft.
Allow Microsoft to follow up on feedback submitted by users.
Allow users to include log files and relevant content samples when feedback is submitted
to Microsoft.
Last updated on 05/21/2026

--- Page 1762 of 2193 ---
Modern change management for Microsoft
365 - Overview
Applies to: Microsoft 365 admin center
Organizations now operate in an environment of continuous change. Managing continuous
service change using traditional management models can be a challenge for IT admins trying to
keep pace.
Microsoft is building modern change management solutions, so that IT admins can enable their
organizations to proactively plan for change. By using AI enabled tools, admins can assess
impact, prioritize work, and make informed decisions. Modern change management capabilities
help IT admins manage risk, meet compliance requirements, and adopt Microsoft 365 features
with confidence.
This model gives IT admins configurable release options to control rollout timing, an enhanced
Message center for clearer and more actionable communications, and two MCP (Model Context
Protocol) Servers—Microsoft Release Communications MCP Server and Microsoft MCP for
Enterprise—for AI-assisted change planning.
Customize your organization's release experience for
Microsoft 365
From the Microsoft admin center, you can choose between various release options for Microsoft
365 updates, either during general availability or before general availability.
General availability
Microsoft thoroughly tests and validates all features and services before release.
Standard release delivers fully supported features to your organization at general availability
(GA). Standard is the default release option, and Microsoft recommends it for most organizations.
If you need to delay features for some users, you can choose standard release for your
organization and assign specific users to deferred release.
Deferred release delays deferred-capable GA features for up to 30 days, giving admins additional
preparation time. After 30 days, the features appear to your deferred release users. If your
organization has additional validation requirements, you can assign some or all users to deferred

--- Page 1763 of 2193 ---
release. You can identify deferred-capable features in the Message center. To test and validate
changes before they reach your deferred release users, add select users to standard release so
they receive deferred-capable feature updates earlier.
For more information about modern release options and how to configure them, see Configure
Standard and Deferred release options for Microsoft 365.
７ Note
Currently, the modern release options of standard and deferred release channels aren't
available for GCC, GCC High, and DoD cloud environments. Check this article for updates
regarding future support.
Before general availability
As an IT admin, you can opt in to use features before general availability by assigning users to
specific release audiences.
The Microsoft Frontier program gives organizations early access to innovative and emerging AI
capabilities in Microsoft 365 before those features reach general availability. By opting in to
Frontier program, IT administrators can evaluate new Copilot agents and AI-powered
experiences, determine readiness for broader deployment across their tenant, and provide
feedback about Frontier feature capabilities to Microsoft.
The Frontier program supports early experimentation, but the features aren't fully supported,
might change, and might not reach GA. They're intended for evaluation and readiness, not
production use.
For more information on the Frontier program, see Get started with the Microsoft Frontier
program.
Updated Message center interface
The updated Message center experience helps you deliver timely, relevant, and actionable
change communications. It provides:
Launch-day announcements with brief summaries and links to supporting resources.
A consistent post format that includes the change description, rollout timeline, affected
users and platforms, recommended actions, and compliance considerations.

--- Page 1764 of 2193 ---
For more information, see What's new in Message center and Message center in the Microsoft
365 admin center.
Microsoft Release Communications MCP Server
AI-enabled organizations use intelligent tooling to accelerate their internal processes. By
integrating the Microsoft Release Communications (MRC) MCP Server with your AI tools, you can
connect to the latest release information for updates on Microsoft 365 Roadmap and Azure
Roadmap to create the infrastructure for AI-assisted reasoning over upcoming changes, priorities,
and business impact.
For information on how to start using MRC MCP server, see Get started with Release
Communications MCP Server.
Microsoft MCP Server for Enterprise
Shift from passively reviewing service updates to actively reasoning over change data. With
Microsoft MCP Server for Enterprise, you can give AI agents conversational, read-only access to
your organization's Message center and Service Health Dashboard data. The server queries
Microsoft Graph using your delegated permissions, so Microsoft Entra security, access controls,
and compliance requirements stay in place.
Use Microsoft MCP Server for Enterprise to:
Summarize tenant-relevant Message center posts through natural language
Identify changes that affect your organization and determine actions to take
Prioritize work by reasoning over change data without leaving your AI workflow
For more information, see Overview of Microsoft MCP Server for Enterprise - Microsoft Graph.
Available workloads for modern change management
This is the first step in our modernization change management journey. We're starting the
modern change management experience with Microsoft 365 Copilot. Not all Microsoft 365
workloads are available in this new model. Existing and traditional change management tools and
methodologies can still be used for these experiences.
ﾉ Expand table

--- Page 1765 of 2193 ---
Modern change management Traditional change management
- Modern change management - Overview - Set up the Standard or Targeted release options
- Configure modern release options - Microsoft 365 change guide - Microsoft 365 Apps
- Modern release options FAQ - Stay on top of changes
- Release Communications MCP server
- What's new in Message Center
Communication channels for Microsoft 365 updates
The following table shows various communication channels we have that you can use to help
manage change:
ﾉ Expand table
Communication Description Documentation
channel
Microsoft 365 - Understand what features are coming, when they're Microsoft 365 Roadmap
Roadmap expected to release, and which environments they apply
to.
- Provides early planning signals that complement
Message center announcements and supports proactive
change management across Microsoft 365.
Message center - Learn about official service announcements and feature Message center in the
changes. Microsoft 365 admin
- Read these messages in the Microsoft 365 admin center
center, the admin mobile app, or receive a weekly digest
in email.
- Share these messages with others in your organization
when you see a message someone else should act on.
Related articles
Get started with the Microsoft Release Communications MCP Server
Overview of Microsoft MCP Server for Enterprise - Microsoft Graph
Configure modern release options for Microsoft 365
Release options FAQ
Get started with Microsoft Frontier program
What's new in Message center

--- Page 1766 of 2193 ---
Last updated on 04/30/2026

--- Page 1767 of 2193 ---
Configure new Standard and Deferred
release options for Microsoft 365
Applies to: Microsoft 365 Copilot, Microsoft 365 admin center
Microsoft 365 delivers updates continuously, enabling organizations to adopt new capabilities
without large, infrequent upgrades. To help IT admins manage this pace of change, Microsoft 365
offers a new three-tier, audience-based release model-Frontier, Standard, and Deferred-so
organizations can balance early access with readiness and control.
） Important
The modern release options of standard and deferred initially applies to Microsoft 365
Copilot updates that have been identified as both a major change and deferred capable in
the Message center. We'll expand this approach across all Microsoft 365 services over time.
For release information for Microsoft 365 apps, see Overview of update channels for
Microsoft 365 Apps.
With Standard release, your organization receives new features as soon as they're generally
available (GA). Standard release is the default option and should be the primary release channel
for most customers. Microsoft thoroughly tests and validates all features and services before we
release them. Your organization is configured as standard release by default.
If you have additional validation requirements, your organization might want to consider
Deferred release for all or some users. Features available in deferred release are major Microsoft
365 releases and are considered "deferred-capable," meaning admins will have 30 days to
prepare for the release after broad release in standard begins. After 30 days, generally available
Microsoft 365 features appear to your users. You can see which features are deferred-capable in
the Message center.
For pre-release availability, the Microsoft Frontier program provides early access to innovative
and emerging AI capabilities in Microsoft 365 before those features reach general availability. For
more information about getting started with the Frontier program, see Get started with the
Microsoft Frontier program.
You can use these new release options so you can align feature delivery with your organization's
readiness, governance requirements, and overall change management strategy.

--- Page 1768 of 2193 ---
７ Note
Currently, the modern release options of standard and deferred release channels aren't
available for GCC, GCC High, and DoD cloud environments. Check this article for updates
regarding future support.
How release validation works
Microsoft feature teams validate each new release first, followed by the Microsoft 365 feature
team, and then that feature rolls out to all of Microsoft. At each release phase, Microsoft collects
feedback and further validates quality by monitoring key usage metrics before it goes to the
public. This series of progressive validations helps make sure the worldwide rollout to general
availability (standard release) is as robust as possible.
As shown in the following figure, you can now use a modern, audience-based release model that
includes the Frontier program, Standard release, and Deferred release as release options.

For a comparison of release options, see the following table:
ﾉ Expand table

--- Page 1769 of 2193 ---
Release Primary purpose Feature Key considerations for IT admins
audience readiness
Frontier Early Pre-GA, not Frontier features are pre-release, subject to change,
program experimentation and fully supported and not governed by GA SLAs. IT admins can
feedback control which users have access to which Frontier
features and agents.
Standard Default GA rollout Fully supported Features are supported, communicated through
release GA features Message Center and release notes, and expected to
(default) remain available under standard lifecycle policies.
Recommended for most organizations.
Deferred Delayed GA for Fully supported Same functionality as standard release, with timing
release additional GA features delayed for 30 days after standard GA for major
preparation (delayed) features to organizations with additional validation
requirements.
For significant updates, Microsoft first notifies you through the Microsoft 365 Roadmap . Before
rollout, Microsoft notifies you through the Microsoft 365 Message center .
７ Note
If your organization is using targeted release for other Microsoft 365 services, you can
continue to do so as we drive towards our converged release strategy. We recommend
configuring release preferences for frontier, standard, and deferred audiences to align with
the new release model as Microsoft begins delivering an increasing number of major
features through it over time. Use the Microsoft Message Center to keep up with new
products and services using this audience-based release model.
For more information about targeted release for other Microsoft 365 services, see Configure
standard and targeted release.
Prerequisites
You must have one of the following roles in Microsoft 365 admin center to configure standard
and deferred release options:
Office Apps Admin
Security Admin
AI Admin
For more information, see About administrator roles in the Microsoft 365 admin center.

--- Page 1770 of 2193 ---
Release option best practices
We recommend that you use the release options in the following ways to balance early access
with organizational readiness:
To get the latest Microsoft 365 improvements as soon as they reach general availability,
enroll your organization in standard release. Optionally, assign business-critical users to
deferred release to give them more time to prepare for major changes.
If you need extra time to validate deferred-capable features before broad rollout, use
deferred release. Assign a subset of IT pros or power users to standard release to evaluate
new features for privacy and compliance readiness.
Plan release phases around user impact and readiness, not individual feature controls, to
help manage risk and set clear expectations for users.
Align your release configuration with your change management and support readiness,
including documentation, training, and help desk preparation.
Review and adjust audience assignments over time as your organization's readiness and
change tolerance evolve.
Configure release options in Microsoft 365
admin center
By default, use standard release for Microsoft 365 service updates. This option meets the needs
of most customers. To better manage your organization's readiness and testing needs, you can
change the default release selection at any time in the Microsoft 365 admin center. It can take up
to 24 hours for the following changes to take effect in Microsoft 365.
７ Note
Currently, Deferred release option only supports Microsoft 365 Copilot-related features. For
information on which features are Deferred-capable, check Message Center posts. We'll
update this documentation as more features are supported.
To assign users to the Deferred release audience, follow these steps:
1. Sign in to the Microsoft 365 admin center.
2. In the left navigation, expand Copilot and select Settings.

--- Page 1771 of 2193 ---

3. Under the All Settings tab, select Copilot release preferences: General Availability.
4. Choose either Standard Release or Deferred Release.
5. Add any user exceptions. You can add up to 100 user exceptions to Standard release or
Deferred release.
If you want to only assign a specific user to deferred release, select Standard Release,
search for the user, and select their name.

--- Page 1772 of 2193 ---
If you want to only assign a specific user to standard release, select Deferred Release,
search for the user, and select their name.

--- Page 1773 of 2193 ---
6. Select Save.
７ Note
If you move users from standard release to deferred release, they might lose access to
features that aren't available yet in deferred release.

--- Page 1774 of 2193 ---
Related articles
Modern change management for Microsoft 365 - Overview
Get started with the Microsoft Release Communications MCP Server
Overview of Microsoft MCP Server for Enterprise
Get started with Microsoft Frontier program
What's new in Message center
Set up the standard or targeted release options for Microsoft 365
Last updated on 04/30/2026

--- Page 1775 of 2193 ---
Get started with the Microsoft Copilot
Frontier Program
The Microsoft Frontier program gives organizations early access to innovative and emerging AI
capabilities in Microsoft 365 before those features reach general availability (GA). By opting in to
Frontier, IT administrators can evaluate new Microsoft Copilot agents and AI-powered
experiences, determine readiness for broader deployment across their tenant, and provide
feedback about Frontier feature capabilities to Microsoft.
） Important
Frontier is managed at the tenant level. Production tenants can safely enroll users into the
Frontier program to allow your organization access to Frontier features. IT admins have
explicit control which users have access to which Frontier features.
Frontier features are preview and subject to change.
Microsoft's audience-based release model helps IT admins control how features are delivered to
different user groups. This release model includes:
Frontier (opt-in) is designed for early adopters who want pre-release access to features to
evaluate and prepare.
Standard release is the default release experience where users receive new features as soon
as they're generally available.
Deferred release is for audiences in more complex environments that need additional time
to validate changes before deployment.
To learn more about the audience-based release model, see Configure modern release options
for Microsoft 365 features.
Access to Frontier program experiences vary depending on your organization's subscription and
user roles.
Joining the Frontier program requires a Microsoft 365 Copilot license.
Frontier features are preview and subject to change.

--- Page 1776 of 2193 ---
To learn more about the Microsoft Frontier program, what's new, and how to try what's next in AI,
see Microsoft Frontier program .
Prerequisites
） Important
If you want to use Microsoft 365 Copilot Cowork, you need to make sure Anthropic is turned
on in your tenant. For more information, see Get started with Cowork.
Review the following requirements and recommendations:
Verify your admin role. You need an account that includes one of the following roles: AI
Admin, Security Admin, Office Apps Admin.
Verify that Microsoft 365 Copilot licenses are assigned to users who you want to access
Frontier features.
From the Microsoft 365 admin center, go to Billing > Licenses > Microsoft 365 Copilot
and confirm the assignments.
Users without a Microsoft 365 Copilot license aren't presented with Frontier features.
Verify that your own admin account has a Microsoft 365 Copilot license. Some Frontier
settings and agents in the Microsoft 365 admin center might not appear.
Enroll users in Frontier
You can manage Frontier settings in the Microsoft 365 admin center.
To turn on Frontier preview experiences for your users, do the following steps:
1. Sign in to the Microsoft 365 admin center .
2. Go to Copilot > Settings.
3. Select the View all tab.
4. In the Search all Copilot settings search bar, type "Frontier".
5. Select Copilot Frontier.
6. Choose how Frontier access is assigned in your organization:
No access (default)

--- Page 1777 of 2193 ---
All users
Specific users
After you turn on Frontier experiences for your organization, eligible users can access supported
preview features as they're released. It might take three hours for Frontier features and agents to
be available to users.
７ Note
Some Microsoft 365 AI features across platforms (Windows, Mac, iOS, and Android) are
currently released as a part of the Microsoft 365 Insider program. Learn more about the
Microsoft 365 Insider Program for Business .
Allow access to Frontier agents
Before your users can access Frontier agents, make sure that agent types are approved for use.
1. In the Microsoft 365 admin center , go to Agent > Settings > Allowed agent types.
2. Verify that Allow apps and agents built by Microsoft is checked. This setting allows the use
of Microsoft Frontier agents.
For more information about managing access to specific agents for specific users or groups, see
Agent settings in Microsoft 365 admin center.
For information about managing agents that show up in the Agent Store, see Set up Agent Store
in Microsoft 365 Copilot.
７ Note
The Frontier admin control doesn't override the settings configured in the Agent section of
the admin center. If an admin turned off a Frontier agent in the Agent view, that agent isn't
available to users, regardless of a user's Frontier enrollment.
） Important
After you enroll users in the Frontier program, Frontier agents are available to them from
the Agent store in Microsoft 365 Copilot. Search for "Built by Microsoft", and Frontier

--- Page 1778 of 2193 ---
program agents are displayed with (Frontier) in the name. It might take up to three hours
for Frontier agents to appear in the store.
Deploy agents to your users directly
You can install and pin specific agents to select users or groups directly rather than users needing
to search the Agent store. This method helps users start using Frontier agents more quickly.
1. Go to Agents > All agents.
2. Select the agent you want to install.
3. In the Users tab, add the specific users or security groups that you want to use this agent.
Use a Microsoft Entra ID security group to target specific users who can access Frontier
agents. This approach helps you validate experiences with a small group before broad
rollout.
4. In the agent flyout, select Install. To help users find the agent, you can select Pin for users.
The agent appears in the Microsoft 365 Copilot app.
Manage AI provider large language models
Some Frontier features and agents require access to large language models from AI providers,
such as Anthropic. Review the requirements and understand the implications for each large
language model you want to use.
To allow access to other models, use the Microsoft 365 admin center to explicitly approve each
model. For more information, see Manage AI provider settings in the Microsoft 365 admin center.
Configure AI-enabled Cloud PCs for Frontier
To use AI-enabled Cloud PCs during Frontier preview, you must meet the Cloud PC specifications
and turn on AI-enabled features to Cloud PCs in Microsoft Intune.
To learn more about AI-enabled Cloud PCs, including minimum requirements that must be met
before setup, see AI-enabled Cloud PC (Frontier Preview). After meeting these requirements,
follow the instructions in Manage AI-enabled features (Frontier Preview) to set up AI-enabled
Cloud PCs for your users.
Related articles

--- Page 1779 of 2193 ---
Microsoft Frontier program
Modern change management for Microsoft 365 - Overview
Configure modern release options for Microsoft 365 features
） Note: The author created this article with assistance from AI. Learn more
Last updated on 06/01/2026

--- Page 1780 of 2193 ---
Frequently asked questions about modern
release options for Microsoft 365
Applies to: Microsoft 365 Copilot, Microsoft 365 admin center
This article provides answers to frequently asked questions that IT admins might have about
release options in Microsoft 365. For more information about modern release options in
Microsoft 365, see Modern change management for Microsoft 365 - Overview and Configure
modern release options.
７ Note
Deferred release only supports features identified as both major updates and that are
deferred-capable. For information on which features are deferred-capable, check Message
Center posts.
Can I choose which users get Microsoft 365 features
earlier vs later?
Yes, within the same tenant, you can choose from the following options:
Assign most users to standard release and assign a subset of users to deferred release, or
Assign most users to deferred release and assign a small group of early adopters to
standard release
This allows you to:
Test changes with IT or pilot groups first
Give business-critical users more time before receiving changes
Can I defer individual features?
No, you can’t defer individual features. Deferred release applies to eligible major features that
Microsoft identifies as "deferred‑capable."
If your tenant is configured for deferred release, all eligible major features follow the deferred
timeline automatically.

--- Page 1781 of 2193 ---
You can still use existing admin controls (when available) to manage specific features in your
tenant.
When does the 30‑day deferred period begin?
The 30‑day timer starts when the feature begins rolling out in GA to standard release users
globally. The deferred period doesn't begin when the standard global rollout completes.
Standard users can begin evaluating the feature immediately, but users that are in deferred
release receive the feature 30 days later.
What if feature rollout takes weeks or months to reach
all users?
Microsoft rolls out Microsoft 365 features in stages to help ensure quality.
When we roll out a feature for general availability, standard release users receive the feature
before deferred release users. Users assigned to standard release can start evaluating the
feature as soon as it reaches your standard release users.
Deferred release users receive the deferred-capable feature 30 days after the rollout to
Standard release begins. This delay gives IT admins and power users more time to test,
validate, and prepare before the feature reaches your deferred release users.
Will tenant-wide features respect standard and
deferred user settings?
Most Microsoft 365 features are delivered at the user level and respect your standard and
deferred assignments. However, some features are deployed at the tenant level. Tenant-wide
changes might apply to all users at once, regardless of release audience assignment.
What happens if a feature needs to be rolled back?
If Microsoft finds a quality issue during rollout:
Microsoft pauses the rollout.
Users who haven’t received the feature won’t get it.
If needed, Microsoft might remove the feature from users who already received it.
Deferred release users won't receive a feature that Microsoft rolls back before it reaches them.

--- Page 1782 of 2193 ---
Does deferred release replace admin controls?
No, deferred release provides time to evaluate production-ready, generally available features. It
works alongside existing admin controls, feature-level enable/disable settings (when available).
You can still request additional controls through your Microsoft account team if needed.
How does Message center support deferred release?
For deferred release, we've updated the Message center to do the following actions:
Clearly identify deferred-eligible features
Include a Rollout timing column to help you plan for updates
Send out announcements closer to the start of GA to ensure accuracy
These updates can help reduce shifting timelines, improve readiness planning, and align
communications with generally available and fully supported features. For information about
Message center updates, see What's new in Message center.
Can I assign most of my organization to standard
release and specific users to deferred release?
Yes, if your organization needs more time for validating deferred-capable features, you can
leverage assigning specific users to deferred release in the audience-based release model. For
more information about configuring modern release options, see Configure modern release
options for Microsoft 365.
Does deferred release apply to features that aren't
major changes?
No, even if you have users in deferred release, a feature that isn’t classified as a major change
and deferred-eligible via Message center still releases to users when the feature is broadly
available.
How does deferred release affect Frontier features?
Deferred release doesn't apply to Frontier program features. Deferred release enables
customers to delay delivery of eligible features at general availability (GA). Frontier provides
preview access for early adopters to evaluate new experiences and provide feedback. Frontier

--- Page 1783 of 2193 ---
access is managed separately from deferred release. Although Frontier features are pre-release,
they run within an otherwise generally available (GA) environment. For more information about
the Frontier program, see Microsoft Frontier program .
Where can I find guidance on these new features and
updates?
Check for updates to this article, Modern change management for Microsoft 365 - Overview,
Message Center posts, and the Microsoft 365 Roadmap for more information about modern
change communications coming to Microsoft 365.
Do standard release and deferred release options
affect Microsoft 365 App release options?
No. For information about release options for Microsoft 365 Apps, see Overview of update
channels for Microsoft 365 Apps.
How does this impact targeted release?
If your organization is using targeted release for other Microsoft 365 services, you can continue
to do so as we drive towards our converged release strategy. We recommend configuring
release preferences for frontier, standard, and deferred audiences to align with the new release
model as Microsoft begins delivering an increasing number of major features through it over
time. Use the Microsoft Message center to keep up with new products and services using this
audience-based release model.
Related articles
Configure modern release options for Microsoft 365
Modern change management for Microsoft 365 - Overview
Get started with the Microsoft Release Communications MCP Server
What's new in Message center
Last updated on 04/16/2026

--- Page 1784 of 2193 ---
Set up the Standard or Targeted release
options for Microsoft 365
Applies to: Outlook (new), OneDrive, SharePoint in Microsoft 365, Microsoft 365 for the web, Microsoft 365
admin center, Exchange Online, Microsoft Teams
With Microsoft 365, you receive new product updates and features as they become available
instead of doing costly updates every few years. You can manage how your organization
receives these updates. For example, you can sign up for an early release so that your
organization receives updates first. You can designate that only certain individuals receive the
updates. Or, you can remain on the default release schedule and receive the updates later. This
article explains the different release options and how you can use them for your organization.
If your organization is using targeted release for Microsoft 365 services, you can continue to do
so as we drive towards our converged release strategy. We recommend configuring release
preferences for frontier, standard, and deferred audiences to align with the new release model
as Microsoft begins delivering an increasing number of major features through it over time.
Use the Microsoft Message Center to keep up with new products and services that use the
new, audience-based release model. For information about modern release options for
Microsoft 365, see Configure modern release options for Microsoft 365 Copilot.
） Important
The Microsoft 365 updates described in this article apply to new Outlook, OneDrive,
SharePoint in Microsoft 365, Microsoft 365 for the web, Microsoft 365 admin center, some
components of Exchange Online and Microsoft Teams. These release options are targeted,
best effort ways to release changes to Microsoft 365 but can't be guaranteed at all times
or for all updates. They don't currently apply to services other than those listed previously.
For information about release options for Microsoft 365 Apps, see Overview of update
channels for Microsoft 365 Apps.
How release validation works
Any new release is first tested and validated by the feature team, then by the entire Microsoft
365 feature team, followed by all of Microsoft. After internal testing and validation, the next
step is a Targeted release (formerly known as First release) to customers who opt in. At each

--- Page 1785 of 2193 ---
release ring, Microsoft collects feedback and further validates quality by monitoring key usage
metrics. This series of progressive validation is in place to make sure the worldwide-release is
as robust as possible. The releases are pictured in the following figure.
For significant updates, customers are initially notified by the Microsoft 365 Roadmap . As an
update gets closer to rolling out, it's communicated through your Microsoft 365 Message
center .
Standard release
For Microsoft 365, Standard release is the default option where you and your users receive the
latest updates when they're released broadly to all customers.
Targeted release
With this option, you and your users can be the first to see the latest updates and help shape
the product by providing early feedback. You can choose to have individuals or the entire
organization receive updates early.
） Important
Large or complex updates may take longer than others so that no users are adversely
affected. There is no guarantee on the exact timeline of a release. Targeted release is now
available for customers with either the Office 365 GCC plan or the Office 365 GCC High
plan and DoD plan for the following services: new Outlook, OneDrive, SharePoint in

--- Page 1786 of 2193 ---
Microsoft 365, Microsoft 365 for web, Microsoft 365 admin center, and some components
of Exchange Online.
７ Note
If you switch from targeted release back to standard release track, your users may lose
access to features that haven't reached standard release yet.
Targeted release for entire organization
If you Set up the release option in the admin center for this option, all your users will get the
Targeted release experience. For organizations with more than 300 users, we recommend using
a test subscription for this option. For test subscription information, reach out to your
Microsoft contact.
Targeted release for selected users
If you Set up the release option in the admin center for this option, you can define specific
users, usually power users, to receive early access to features and functionality.
It's important to ensure that your help desk is opted into Targeted release so that they have
access to the Targeted release features needed to support your users.
） Important
Some features only roll out on a per-organization basis. This means that the entire
organization will receive access to the feature at the same time. For features like this, it’s
not possible for selected users in the targeted release program to get the feature early.
This means that your organization won't be able to receive these features early if you have
configured selected users in targeted release. To make sure that you see all features in
targeted release, you'll need to configure targeted release for the entire organization or
set up a test organization.
Benefits of Targeted release
Targeted release allows admins, change managers, or anyone else responsible for Microsoft
365 updates to prepare for the upcoming changes by letting them:

--- Page 1787 of 2193 ---
Test and validate new updates before they're released to all users in the organization.
Prepare user notification and documentation before updates are released worldwide.
Prepare internal help-desk for upcoming changes.
Go through compliance and security reviews.
Use feature controls, where applicable, to control the release of updates to end users.
Best practices for Targeted release
Keep most users in standard release and assign IT pros and power users to targeted
release to evaluate new features ahead of broader rollout. Targeted release users can then
prepare user notifications, documentation, and the internal help desk before updates are
released worldwide.
Only assign specific users in targeted release.
If you need to test a feature in targeted release with a larger group of users (or a tenant),
consider using a test tenant instead of putting your entire organization in targeted
release.
Set up the release option in the admin center
You can change how your organization receives Microsoft 365 updates by following these
steps. You have to be a global admin in Microsoft 365 to opt in.
） Important
Microsoft recommends that you use roles with the fewest permissions. Using roles with
the fewest permissions helps improve security for your organization. Global Administrator
is a highly privileged role that should be limited to emergency scenarios when you can't
use an existing role. For more information, see About administrator roles in the Microsoft
365 admin center.
It can take up to 24 hours for the following changes to take effect in Microsoft 365. If you opt
out of targeted release after enabling it, your users might lose access to features that haven't
reached the scheduled release yet.
1. In the admin center, go to the Settings > Org Setting, and under the Organization
profile tab , choose Release preferences.
2. To opt out of targeted release, select Standard release, then select Save changes.

--- Page 1788 of 2193 ---
3. To enable targeted release for all users in your organization, select Targeted release for
everyone, then select Save changes.
4. To enable targeted release for some people in your organization, select Targeted release
for selected users, then select Save.
5. Choose Select users to add users one at a time, or Upload users to add them in bulk.
6. When you're done adding users, select Save.

Next steps
Discover how to manage messages in your Microsoft 365 Message center to get
notifications about upcoming Microsoft 365 updates and releases.
Related content
Modern change management for Microsoft 365 - Overview
Configure modern release options for Microsoft 365 Copilot
Get started with the Microsoft Release Communications MCP Server
Prepare for Microsoft 365 updates with Message center
Release notes for Outlook for Windows (new) Targeted Release
Last updated on 04/16/2026

--- Page 1789 of 2193 ---
Track new and changed features in the
Microsoft 365 Message center
The Microsoft 365 Message center helps IT admins track upcoming changes, feature updates,
and required actions across services. Use Message center to plan for change, prevent
disruptions, and stay informed about Microsoft 365 updates that affect your organization.
To open Message center from the Microsoft admin center, go to Health > Message center .
You can also use the Microsoft 365 Admin app on your mobile device to view Message
center, which is a great way to stay current with push notifications.
For the most recent updates to Message center, see What's new in Message center.
For frequently asked questions about Message center, see Message center FAQ.
Feature release status for your organization in
Message Center
７ Note
The release status is only available for limited Microsoft Teams feature announcements.
For each new and updated feature announcement in Message center, the Status for your org
field provides a release status to help you track when a feature is available in your tenant.
These three release statuses are updated on each applicable message over the lifecycle of the
feature release:
Scheduled: The feature is planned to release to your tenant, and isn't available to any
users in your organization
Rolling out: The feature is beginning to roll out to some applicable users in your
organization.
Launched: The feature is generally available to all the applicable users in your
organization.

--- Page 1790 of 2193 ---
Updates to feature release status are provided on the original Message center post. Filtering
capability on Status for your org allows easier visibility on the updated release status.
The release status is only available for new and updated features that are also announced on
Microsoft 365 Public Roadmap and that have general availability status (production ready). If
you don't see release status on a message, it means the release status isn't available for that
feature.
Relevance recommendation
For each new Message center post, we provide a recommendation for how relevant the change
is for your organization. This recommendation is based on multiple factors such as:
Apps and service usage.
Changes meant to prevent or fix issues for subscription.
Changes meant to help you plan ahead or stay informed.
Impact changes, such as data privacy and app and service retirements.
There are three levels of relevance:
High - These posts are about changes in your organization, which need immediate action
to avoid service disruption. These posts can also include feature releases with high
potential impact to your organization, for example, an app or service being heavily used
by people in your organization.
Medium - These posts are about changes in your organization, which don't need
immediate action. Examples are nonbreaking changes or new features for a service, which
is being used by your organization, an early announcement for an upcoming breaking
feature change, retirement
Low - These posts are about changes that you need to monitor. They're related to low
impact apps and services in your organization. Examples would be a feature update for an
app or service, which isn't actively used in your organization.
The relevance recommendations are only available for newer Message center posts. This means
the Message center posts you already received are "blank" for relevance recommendations.
If you see Processing for a Message center post, it means that the score is being computed for
this post and should be available soon. You should try to refresh after a few minutes.

--- Page 1791 of 2193 ---
Microsoft needs your feedback to improve the accuracy and relevance for Message center
posts. Use the Extended Feedback option on Message center posts to send us your opinions.
Filter messages
Message center presents a view of all active messages in a table format. By default, it shows
the most recent message at the top of the list.
Use the Service, Tag, and Message state drop-down menus to select a filtered view of
messages:
Under Service, you can select various services, such as Microsoft 365 Apps, SharePoint
Online, etc., to filter messages.
Under Tag, you can select Admin impact, Data privacy, Feature update, Major update,
New feature, Retirement, or User impact messages.
Under Message state, you can select Favorites, Unread, or Updated messages.
The Archive tab shows the messages you have archived. To archive a message from the
message pane, select Archive.
You can select any column heading, except Service and Tag, to sort messages in ascending or
descending order.
Major updates
Major updates can be reviewed by selecting the Major update from the Tags drop-down.
Major updates are communicated at least 30 days in advance when an action is required and
might include:
User impacting changes to daily productivity such as changing a user’s inbox, meetings,
delegations, sharing and access that might result in help desk calls, or organizational
conformance concerns.
Changes to the themes, web parts, deployed Copilot agents, and other components that
might impact customer customizations.
Increases or decreases to visible capacity such as storage, number of rules, Copilot agents
and prompts, items, or durations.
Rebranding that might cause end-user confusion or result in help desk changes, collateral
changes, or URL changes if the new URL isn't *.cloud.microsoft
A new service or application deployed with default settings turned on.

--- Page 1792 of 2193 ---
Changes to where data is stored or accessed.
Preferences
If administration is distributed across your organization, you might not want or need to see
posts about all Microsoft 365 services. Each admin can do the following actions:
Set preferences that control which messages are displayed in Message center.
Filter messages.
Set email preferences to receive a weekly digest of all messages, emails for major updates
only, and emails for data privacy messages.
To access Message center preferences, do the following steps:
1. Select Preferences at the top of Message center.
2. In the Custom View tab, make sure that the check box is selected for each service that
you want to monitor. Clear the check boxes for the services you want to filter out of your
Message center view.
3. Digest emails are turned on by default and are sent to your primary email address. To
stop receiving the weekly digest, clear the Send me email notifications from message
center check box in the Email tab.
You can also enter up to two email addresses, separated by a semicolon.
You can also choose the emails you want to get, and a weekly digest of services you
select.
4. Select Save to keep your changes.
Display messages in your preferred language
We use machine translation to automatically display messages in your preferred language.
Read Language translation for Message center posts for more information on how to set your
language.
７ Note
The weekly digest and any posts that are emailed are sent in English-only. Recipients can
use Translator for Outlook to read the message in their preferred language.

--- Page 1793 of 2193 ---
Service & monthly active users
When you open a message center post, we tell you the number of users who have been using
that Microsoft 365 app or service in the Service & monthly active users section. The numbers
are for the last 28 days. This info can help you prioritize which changes you should work on.
The number of monthly users applies to all users who have been using that Microsoft 365 app
or service on any device.
７ Note
This feature isn't available for all Microsoft 365 productivity apps and services yet. We'll let
you know when the feature isn't available.
Display specific columns
To choose columns, on the Message center page, on the far right, select Choose columns, and
in the Choose columns pane, select the ones you want displayed.
Here's a quick overview of the information in each column.
Column information
ﾉ Expand table
Column Description
Check mark Selecting the check mark in the column heading row selects all messages currently
displayed. Selecting the check mark next to one or more messages lets you take action on

--- Page 1794 of 2193 ---
Column Description
those messages.
Message Message titles are brief descriptions of upcoming changes. If the full title doesn't display,
title hover your cursor over it and the entire title appears in a pop-up box.
More More options let you dismiss a message, mark it as read or unread, or share it with another
options admin. To restore an archived message, select the Archive tab, select the check mark next
to the message, and select Restore.
Favorite You can select the star to mark a message as a favorite. Once you mark messages as
favorite, you can also sort and filter them.
Service Icons indicate the application to which the message applies.
Last Date that the message was published or last updated.
updated
Timing of Allows you to sort and filter posts by when a rollout is planned.
change
Act by We only have dates here if we're making a change that requires you to take an action by a
certain deadline. Since we rarely use the Act by column, if you see something here, you
should pay extra attention to it.
Relevance Relevance is our recommendation based on the potential impact to your organization and
the usage of affected services.
Status for This column only shows a status if the service is supported or if it's applicable.
your org
Tag You can choose tags from the Tag drop-down to filter messages.
Data Privacy: Data privacy notification (limited to global administrator and Message center
Privacy reader roles).
Major update: Changes communicated at least 30 days in advance (Major updates).
Retirement: Retirement of a service or feature.
New feature: New feature or service.
Feature update: Update to an existing feature.
Admin impact: When the change clearly impacts the admin in the following ways - UI
change, workflow change, control available, and Specific/Potential Action.
User impact: When the change to the service clearly impacts the user - UI Change and
workflow change.
Updated message: When a message is updated.

--- Page 1795 of 2193 ---
Column Description
Platform The platform that’s affected by the Message center post.
Category This column isn't shown by default, but can be specified in the Choose columns panel.
Messages are identified by one of the following three categories:
Prevent or fix issues: Informs you of known issues affecting your organization and might
require that you take action to avoid disruptions in service. Prevent or fix issues are
different than Service health messages because they prompt you to be proactive to avoid
issues.
Plan for change: Informs you of changes to Microsoft 365 that might require you to act to
avoid disruptions in service. For example, we let you know about changes to system
requirements or about features that are being removed. We try to provide at least 30 days'
notice of any change that requires an admin to act to keep the service running normally.
Stay informed: Tells you about new or updated features we're turning on in your
organization. announced first in the Microsoft 365 Roadmap .
Also lets you know about planned maintenance in accordance with our Service Level
Agreement. Planned maintenance might result in down time, where you or your users can't
access Microsoft 365, a specific feature, or a service such as email or OneDrive.
Message ID Microsoft tracks our Message center posts by message ID. You can refer to this ID if you
want to give feedback or if you call Support about a particular message.
Admin roles that don't have access to the Message center
Most users assigned any admin role in Microsoft 365 can view Message center posts. You can
also assign the Message center reader role to users who should be able to read and share
Message center posts without having any other admin privileges.
The following admin roles don't have access to the Message center:
Compliance administrator
Conditional access administrator
Customer Lockbox access approver
Device administrators
Directory readers
Directory synchronization accounts
Directory writers
Intune service administrator
Privileged role administrator
Reports reader

--- Page 1796 of 2193 ---
） Important
Microsoft recommends that you use roles with the fewest permissions. Using roles with
the fewest permissions helps improve security for your organization. Global Administrator
is a highly privileged role that should be limited to emergency scenarios when you can't
use an existing role. For more information, see About administrator roles in the Microsoft
365 admin center.
For more information about admin roles, see About administrator roles in the Microsoft 365
admin center.
Give feedback on a post
In the Message center, you can select a message to view details.
If a Message Center post isn't relevant to your organization, provide us with feedback. Select
thumbs up or thumbs down on the MC post and select This change isn't relevant to my org.
７ Note
If you're using Microsoft 365 for Government - GCC High and Office 365 Government -
DoD, you can't provide feedback on a post.
Share a message
See a message that someone else needs to act on? You can share the contents of the message
with any user by email:
1. Select the message to open it, and then select Share.
2. To share the message, enter email addresses separated by a colon. You can send to
individual and group email addresses. Optionally, you can choose to receive a copy of the
message in email (the message goes to your primary email address) or add a personal
message to provide recipients with more context.
3. Select Share to send the email.
Get a link

--- Page 1797 of 2193 ---
Need to follow up with another admin to make sure they're aware of a change and taking
action? You can generate a link to share in email or instant messaging. The person you share
the link with has to have access to Message center. For more information, see admin roles that
don't have access to the Message center.
1. Select the message center post.
2. Select Copy link.
3. Use Ctrl+V or right-click and select Paste to insert the link to whatever document you
wish.
Read and unread states
Any unread message in Message center appears in bold. Opening a message marks it as read.
To mark a message as unread, from the main page of the message center, select the More
options ellipses next to a message, and then select Mark as unread. You can also open a
message and mark it as unread in the details panel.
Archive and restore a message
If you see a message that doesn't pertain to you, or maybe you've already acted on it, you can
archive the message. Archiving a message removes it from the Inbox. The view that you see in
the Message center is specific to your user account, so archiving it from your view doesn't
affect other admins.
There are two ways to archive a message:
On the main page of the Message center, select a message, and then select Archive
above the list of messages.
Open the message, and then select Archive on the top of the message pane.
Need to get an archived message back? No problem.
1. Select the Archive tab at the top of the Message center. A list of archived messages
appears.
2. Select the message, select Restore, and the message is restored to Inbox.
Scroll messages in the message pane

--- Page 1798 of 2193 ---
When you open a message in a reading pane, you can use the Up and Down arrows on
the top of the pane to move to the next, or the previous message in the list.
Track your message center tasks in Planner
A lot of actionable information about changes to Microsoft 365 services arrives in the Microsoft
365 message center. It can be difficult to keep track of which changes require tasks to be done,
when, and by whom, and to track each task to completion. You also might want to make a note
of something and tag it to check on later. You can do all this and more when you sync your
messages from the Microsoft 365 admin center to Microsoft Planner. For more information, see
Track your message center tasks in Planner.
Set language translation for Message center posts
To learn how to set your language preferences to enable machine translation for Message
center posts, see Language translation for Message center posts.
Work with service communications API in Microsoft
Graph
If you'd like to program an alternative way to get real-time service health information and
Message center communications, see Working with service communications API in Microsoft
Graph.
For AI-powered workflows, you can also use Microsoft MCP Server for Enterprise. For more
information, see Overview of Microsoft MCP Server for Enterprise.
Unsubscribe from Message center emails
1. Digest emails are turned on by default and are sent to your primary email address. To
stop receiving the weekly digest, select Preferences and then Email.
Deselect the Send a weekly digest of my messages checkbox.
Email notification for major updates is a separate control. If you don't want to
receive email notices about major updates, verify that Send me emails for major
updates checkbox isn't selected.
To stop receiving email notices about data privacy messages, verify that Send me
emails for data privacy messages checkbox isn't selected. (Data privacy messages
aren't included in the weekly digest.)

--- Page 1799 of 2193 ---
2. Select Save to keep your changes.
Related articles
What's new in Message center
Frequently asked questions about Message center
Modern change management for Microsoft 365 - Overview
Configure modern release options
Overview of Microsoft MCP Server for Enterprise
Get started with the Microsoft Release Communications MCP Server
Last updated on 04/16/2026

--- Page 1800 of 2193 ---
What's new in Message center
This article describes the new features and improvements in the Microsoft 365 Message center.
For more information about Message center, see Prepare for Microsoft 365 updates with
Message center.
April 2026
The Microsoft 365 Message center is now more timely, relevant, and concise to support
actionable communications. To help IT admins quickly understand changes, posts now include
bullet-point summaries, direct links to documentation, and launch-day announcements instead
of early notifications.
A new Timing of change column allows you to sort and filter posts by when a rollout is
planned. To view a list of all available columns and their descriptions, see Message center in the
Microsoft 365 admin center.
For AI-powered workflows, you can use Microsoft Model Context Protocol (MCP) Server for
Enterprise. For more information, see Overview of Microsoft MCP Server for Enterprise.
Message Center posts now include a dedicated section that describes known security and
compliance considerations for each feature release. This inclusion helps admins, especially
those in highly regulated industries, with security and compliance-specific information
necessary to understand potential compliance and regulatory impact for each feature.
Message center includes an improved post structure with the following new sections:
What and Why
This section briefly describes the change with the reason behind it and includes the following
details:
What is changing (for example, new feature, update, retirement)
Why Microsoft is making the change (for example, customer feedback, security,
productivity)
Alignment with one of three areas:
Personal and Team Productivity
Business Process Automation

--- Page 1801 of 2193 ---
Enterprise-ready AI
Rollout Schedule
This section specifies when the change begins and ends and includes the following details:
Start and end dates
Phased rollout information, if applicable
Preview or General Availability (GA) status
Impact on Your Organization
This section helps you understand who and what is affected and includes the following details:
Who's affected: Scope of impact (for example, all users, specific roles, tenants)
Platforms/Services: Where the change applies (for example, Teams, Outlook, mobile,
desktop)
What will happen describes the following information::
UI changes
Feature behavior
Default settings
Policy interactions
End-user experience
Action Required/Recommendations
This section guides IT admins on what to do and includes the following details:
Checklist of required actions (for example, update settings, notify helpdesk)
Optional recommendations
Links to admin guides or documentation
Whether the feature is opt-in or enabled by default
Compliance Considerations
This section identifies any implications for data handling and governance and includes the
following details:
Data storage or processing changes
AI/ML interactions with customer data
Communication or access changes

--- Page 1802 of 2193 ---
Impact on Purview capabilities (for example, DLP, eDiscovery)
Admin control availability and Microsoft Entra ID integration
Whether users can self-manage the feature
Related articles
Overview of Microsoft MCP Server for Enterprise
Prepare for Microsoft 365 updates with Message center
Message center FAQs
Modern change management for Microsoft 365 - Overview
Last updated on 04/16/2026

--- Page 1803 of 2193 ---
Frequently asked questions about Message
center
This article provides answers to frequently asked questions that IT admins might have about
Message center in Microsoft 365. For more information about Message center, see Manage
continuous change in Microsoft 365 and Track new and changed features in the Microsoft 365
Message center.
Who can view posts in Message center?
Most users assigned any admin role in Microsoft 365 can view Message center posts. Here's a
list of admin roles that don't have access to the Message center. You can also assign the
Message center reader role to users who should be able to read and share Message center
posts without having any other admin privileges.
Is Message center the only way Microsoft
communicates changes about Microsoft 365?
No, but Message center is the primary way we communicate the timing of individual changes
in Microsoft 365. For more information, see Stay on top of Microsoft 365 changes.
How can I see Message center posts in my language?
Message center posts are written in English. You can control whether, by default, posts are
shown in English or are automatically machine-translated to your preferred language. You can
also select to machine-translate posts to any language we support. For more information, see
Language translation for Message center posts.
Can I preview changes or features before they're
rolled-out to my organization?
Some changes and new features can be previewed by opting in to the Targeted release
program. To opt in, from the Microsoft admin center, go to Settings > Org settings >
Organization profile > Release preferences. You might need to select Show all at the bottom
of the left navigation pane in Microsoft admin center to see Settings. You can choose Targeted

--- Page 1804 of 2193 ---
release for your entire organization, or just for selected users. For more information about
Targeted release, see Standard or Targeted release options in Microsoft 365.
Can I find out the exact date a change is available in
my organization?
Unfortunately, we can't tell you the exact date a change is made to your organization. In our
Message center post, we give as much information as we can on the timing of the release,
based on our confidence level. We're working on improvements to get better with that level of
detail.
Are these messages specific to my organization?
We do our best to make sure that you only see Message center posts that affect your
organization. The Microsoft 365 Roadmap includes all of the features we're currently working
on and rolling out, but not all of these features apply to every organization.
Can I get message center posts emailed instead?
Yes, you can select to have a weekly digest emailed to you and up to two other email
addresses. The emailed weekly digest is turned on by default. If you aren't getting your weekly
digests, check your spam folder. For more information on how to set up the weekly digest, see
Preferences in Message center.
How do I stop getting the Message center digest?
1. Go to Message center in the Microsoft admin center and select Preferences.
2. In the Email tab, turn off the option to Send me email notifications from message
center.
How can I ensure data privacy notifications are
received by the right contacts in my organization?
As a global admin, you receive data privacy messages for your organization. Additionally, you
can assign the Message Center Privacy reader role to people who should see data privacy
messages. Other admin roles with access to Message Center can't view data privacy messages.
For more information, see Preferences in Message center.

--- Page 1805 of 2193 ---
Why can’t I see a message that was previously in
Message center?
To manage the number of messages within Message center, each message expires and is
removed after a period of time. Generally, messages expire 30 days after the time period
outlined in the message body.
Related articles
Track new and changed features in the Microsoft 365 Message center
What's new in Message center
Modern change management for Microsoft 365 - Overview
Overview of Microsoft MCP Server for Enterprise
Get started with the Microsoft Release Communications MCP Server
Last updated on 04/16/2026

--- Page 1806 of 2193 ---
Get Started with the Microsoft Release
Communications MCP Server
Applies to: Microsoft 365 Roadmap, Azure Updates, VS Code, Visual Studio, GitHub Copilot CLI
This article introduces the Microsoft Release Communications (MRC) Model Context Protocol
(MCP) Server, explains how it works, and outlines how to start using it in your environment.
The MRC MCP Server provides a unified, programmatic way for MCP-compatible AI clients to
access trusted and up-to-date information that powers Microsoft 365 Roadmap and Azure
Updates .
MRC MCP Server is a remote MCP server that uses streamable HTTP transport, which allows
users to search, filter and retrieve the latest feature release information using natural language
in AI clients.
Instead of requiring developers to understand schemas and query APIs, this tool lets anyone
ask questions in plain language to get precise, structured answers.
Use cases
With MRC MCP, you can do the following actions:
Enhance AI clients such as Visual Studio Code (VS Code), Visual Studio, GitHub Copilot
CLI, Claude Code, and other MCP‑compatible clients.
Enable IT admins, engineers, and technical users to query release and roadmap
information directly from their AI client without relying on the websites.
Requirements
Although the MRC MCP Server is publicly available and free to use, users are subject to the
Microsoft API Terms of Use. Read and understand the API Terms of Use before using the MRC
MCP Server and before including the output in any production environment.
There's no authentication required to access the MRC MCP Server. Users can use their
preferred MCP client or agentic development environment, such as VS Code, Visual Studio, and
more.
There's no licensing required to use the MRC MCP server.

--- Page 1807 of 2193 ---
MCP Endpoint
To connect with MRC MCP Server, use a compatible AI client with the endpoint pointing to the
following URL:
HTML
https://www.microsoft.com/releasecommunications/mcp
７ Note
This endpoint provides programmatic access for MCP clients over Streamable HTTP. It
doesn't support direct access from a web browser and might return a 405 Method Not
Allowed error if accessed manually.
Installation guide
Although VS Code is a common client for MCP Server, MCP is an open protocol that's also
supported by many clients including agents in Copilot Studio, in Foundry, and many other
agentic IDEs. For some other MCP‑compatible clients, the configuration steps are similar and
involve adding the MCP server endpoint to a client‑specific configuration file or settings.
The high-level process includes the following steps:
1. Configure your AI client.
2. Use the MCP server.
Standard configuration
The following standard configuration works in most clients:
JSON
{
"servers": {
"MRC-MCP-Server": {
"type": "http",
"url": "https://www.microsoft.com/releasecommunications/mcp"
}
}
}

--- Page 1808 of 2193 ---
Configure your Editor
For detailed instructions on how to configure the MRC MCP Server in specific clients, see the
following guides:
ﾉ Expand table
Client Installation / Configuration MCP Guide
VS Code 1. Open mcp.json at User level (applies to every VS Code session) or VS Code MCP
Workspace level (.vscode/mcp.json in your project folder). configuration guide
The user-level file is located in the VS Code user settings directory:
- Windows: %APPDATA%\Code\User\mcp.json
- macOS: ~/Library/Application Support/Code/User/mcp.json
- Linux: ~/.config/Code/User/mcp.json
2. Add the standard configuration MCP server entry.
3. Query release data using your AI client.
Visual 1. Create .mcp.json at solution or user level Visual Studio MCP
Studio 2. Add the standard configuration MCP server entry. configuration guide
3. Query release data using your AI client.
GitHub 1. Run /mcp add in interactive mode, opens a configuration form. Copilot CLI MCP
Copilot 2. Enter a server name and select HTTP as the server type. No guide
CLI authentication is required.
3. Press Ctrl+S to save (server is available immediately).
or
edit ~/.copilot/mcp-config.json.
Claude Follow Add custom connector instructions in official guide. Claude Desktop MCP
Desktop guide
Claude Run claude mcp add --transport http mrc-mcp Claude Code MCP
Code https://www.microsoft.com/releasecommunications/mcp guide
or
edit ~/.claude/mcp.json
Cursor 1. Open Cursor MCP settings. Cursor MCP guide .
2. Edit the MCP server configuration to mcp.json.
Codex Run codex mcp add mrc-mcp --url Codex MCP
https://www.microsoft.com/releasecommunications/mcp. documentation
Available Tools
The MCP server exposes four tools:

--- Page 1809 of 2193 ---
ﾉ Expand table
Tool Description
get_recent_azure_updates Retrieves Azure update posts from Microsoft Release Communications with
optional filtering and search capabilities. Returns up to 50 updates per
request with truncated descriptions. Supports OData filtering by products,
product categories, tags (Features, Retirements, Security, etc.), status,
availability dates, and publication dates. Includes text search on titles and
pagination
get_azure_update_by_id Retrieves a specific Azure update post by its unique identifier. Returns full
details of products, tags, and availability dates. Use the unique Azure
Updates ID to get more information about a specific post.
get_recent_roadmaps Retrieves Microsoft 365 roadmap posts from Microsoft Release
Communications with optional filtering and search capabilities. Returns up to
50 roadmap items per request with truncated descriptions. Supports OData
filtering by products, platforms, release rings, cloud instances, status,
availability dates, and publication dates. Includes text search on titles and
pagination.
get_roadmap_by_id Retrieves a specific Microsoft 365 roadmap post by its unique identifier.
Returns full details of products and availability dates. Use the unique
Microsoft 365 roadmap ID to get more information about a specific post.
 Tip
The list tools (get_recent_azure_updates, get_recent_roadmaps) return truncated
descriptions to fit within AI context windows.
Use the MCP Server
To use the MRC MCP Server after installation, do the following steps:
1. Open a chat window in VS Code with GitHub Copilot or your AI client.
2. Ask a question related to Microsoft 365 Roadmap or Azure Updates.
3. Allow the client to use MCP server tools when prompted.
4. Review the response.
Example queries
Here are sample natural‑language queries that demonstrate how users can retrieve product
release information across Microsoft 365 Roadmap and Azure Updates:

--- Page 1810 of 2193 ---
Microsoft 365 Roadmap
As per Microsoft 365 Roadmap, which Microsoft Teams product features are releasing in
June?
Which Outlook product features on the Microsoft 365 Roadmap were updated last week?
What's the status of Feature ID 526798?
List all Excel features launching on Mac that are releasing in March.
Create an email for my Compliance team to review the Microsoft Purview features that
are currently rolling out on Microsoft 365 Roadmap.
What's planned for mobile-only apps in OneNote?
Azure Updates
Which Azure features became Generally Available this quarter?
Show all Azure retirements scheduled for this year.
What are the latest Azure AI services updates?
Which Azure Databricks features were released in February?
List all Azure features that are retiring in next three months.
Limitations
The MRC MCP server contains publicly available documentation, which is available on
Microsoft 365 Roadmap and Azure Updates . The underlying product release information
refreshes daily.
Troubleshooting
MCP tools aren't being invoked
In some cases, even tool-friendly models might not call MCP tools by default. You can improve
tool usage by providing system-level instructions (if supported by your AI client) that explicitly
encourage use of the Release Communications MCP Server tools.
System instructions prompt example
When an AI tool doesn't use the MCP tool when expected, configure specific system-level
instructions for the tool, similar to the following text:
markdown

--- Page 1811 of 2193 ---
You have access to MCP tools provided by the Release Communications MCP Server:
- `get_recent_roadmaps`
- `get_roadmap_by_id`
- `get_recent_azure_updates`
- `get_azure_update_by_id`
When handling questions about Microsoft 365 Roadmap features or Azure service
updates, use these tools to retrieve the most current and authoritative release
information
before responding. When handling questions about Microsoft 365 product roadmap
timelines, upcoming feature releases, Azure service updates, or release status for
specific products (Teams, Outlook, SharePoint, Excel, etc).
Here are some general best practices:
Be explicit in your prompt (for example, mention Azure Updates or Microsoft 365
Roadmap). If the prompt is too generic or doesn't clearly relate to release or roadmap
data, then your AI client might not invoke MCP tools.
Use a system-level instruction (if supported by your AI client) to encourage tool usage.
Confirm that the MCP server is correctly configured and enabled in your client
Customize MCP tool selection
VS Code and Visual Studio
VS Code and Visual Studio support explicit MCP tool selection in Copilot Agent mode. You can
improve accuracy by selecting only relevant tools, such as Azure Update tools.
1. Open Chat.
2. Select Agent mode.
3. Select Configure Tools.
4. Select or deselect MCP tools before running the prompt.
Related documentation
Use tools with agents in VS Code
Configure MCP servers in VS Code
Use MCP servers in Visual Studio
Claude Desktop, Claude Code, Cursor, Codex, GitHub Copilot
These clients don't expose explicit tool selection UI. Instead, do the actions:
Use system instructions to guide tool usage.

--- Page 1812 of 2193 ---
Avoid mixing Azure and Microsoft 365 topics in one prompt.
Related documentation
Connect to remote MCP servers
MCP tools specification
Related articles
Modern change management for Microsoft 365 - Overview
Configure modern release options for Microsoft 365 Copilot
What's new in Message center
Last updated on 04/16/2026

--- Page 1813 of 2193 ---
Overview of Microsoft MCP Server for
Enterprise (preview)
The Microsoft MCP Server for Enterprise https://mcp.svc.cloud.microsoft/enterprise is a
programmatic interface for AI agents to query enterprise data in your Microsoft Entra tenant by
using natural language. Built on the Model Context Protocol (MCP) , an open standard that
specifies how AI models interact with external tools and services, it translates natural language
requests into Microsoft Graph API calls.
This overview explains how Microsoft MCP Server for Enterprise works and how you can integrate
it into your AI-powered workflows.
） Important
Microsoft MCP Server for Enterprise is currently in PREVIEW. This information relates to a
prerelease product that may be substantially modified before it's released. Microsoft makes
no warranties, expressed or implied, with respect to the information provided here.
Microsoft MCP Server for Enterprise is offered under the Microsoft APIs Terms of Use.
How it works
Suppose an administrator asks, "How many users do we have in our Microsoft Entra tenant?" The
following steps show the workflow that runs inside an MCP-enabled AI agent:
1. NLP processing: The Large Language Model (LLM) analyzes the current prompt and chat
history to extract intent (for example, "count the number of users in the tenant"). It decides
to call the microsoft_graph_suggest_queries tool that ships with the Enterprise MCP Server.
2. Semantic search: microsoft_graph_suggest_queries converts the question into embeddings
and searches its semantic index of Microsoft Graph query examples. It returns matches such
as "count total number of users" or "count guest users," which map to candidate Graph API
calls.
3. Query selection: The LLM evaluates the returned examples, selects the most relevant API
call (for example, GET /users/$count), and determines the tool parameters that it needs.
4. Execution: The LLM invokes the microsoft_graph_get tool to run the GET /users/$count
request. The MCP Server enforces the user's privileges and the scopes granted to the MCP

--- Page 1814 of 2193 ---
client.
5. API processing: The MCP Server forwards the request to Microsoft Graph, receives the JSON
response, and returns it to the MCP client.
6. Natural language response: The LLM interprets the JSON payload and converts it into a
natural language answer such as, "There are 10,930 users in the directory."
Tools
The Microsoft MCP Server for Enterprise exposes the following tools that an AI agent can invoke:
microsoft_graph_suggest_queries: Uses retrieval-augmented generation (RAG) to search a
curated catalog of Microsoft Graph API examples that align with the user's intent.
microsoft_graph_get: Runs read-only Microsoft Graph API calls while honoring user roles,
granted scopes, and Graph throttling limits.
microsoft_graph_list_properties: Retrieves the schema for Microsoft Graph entities so that
the AI model understands available properties and relationships before constructing
requests.
Usage scenarios
The Microsoft MCP Server for Enterprise enables several key scenarios:
IT helpdesk and support: Support staff can answer questions like "Which users didn't sign in
last month?" or "Is MFA enabled for all administrators?" without memorizing Graph
endpoints. Multi-step questions such as "List all inactive user accounts that have Copilot
licenses assigned" can also be handled.
Administrative reporting: Administrators can generate reports conversationally (for
example, "Show me the unassigned licenses in my tenant" or "How many guest users do we
have?").
API discovery and prototyping: Developers can explore and test Microsoft Graph APIs
using natural language before integrating them into applications. The MCP server surfaces
the underlying API calls so developers can reuse them in scripts or code.
Automation and scripting: Scripted solutions, Power Platform flows, or Logic Apps can call
the MCP server to execute delegated, natural-language-driven queries over Microsoft Entra
data.
Current scope and capabilities

--- Page 1815 of 2193 ---
Microsoft MCP Server for Enterprise is currently in public preview. It focuses on Microsoft Entra
identity and directory read-only scenarios such as user, group, application, and device insights,
plus administrative reporting. All operations respect existing Microsoft Graph permissions, user
privileges, and tenant security policies.
Licensing and costs
There is no additional cost or separate license required to enable the MCP Server for
Enterprise.
You must have the appropriate licenses for the data you access (for example, Microsoft
Entra ID Governance or Microsoft Entra ID P2 for Privileged Identity Management (PIM)
content).
Requests are limited to 100 calls per minute per user. Calls made through
microsoft_graph_get are also subject to the standard Microsoft Graph throttling limits.
Cloud availability
Microsoft MCP Server for Enterprise is currently available only in the public cloud (global service).
Logs
To log and monitor usage of Microsoft MCP Server for Enterprise, enable Microsoft Graph activity
logs in your tenant. The MCP server uses Microsoft Graph APIs, so every request that an MCP
client executes is captured in those logs.
For logs specific to MCP server usage, filter the activity logs by the MCP server appId (displayed
as "application (client) ID" in the Entra admin center or AppId in the Log Analytics schema):
e8c77dc2-69b3-43f4-bc51-3213c9d915b4. The following sample Kusto query retrieves these entries:
Kusto
MicrosoftGraphActivityLogs
| where TimeGenerated >= ago(30d)
| where AppId == "e8c77dc2-69b3-43f4-bc51-3213c9d915b4"
| project RequestId, TimeGenerated, UserId, RequestMethod, RequestUri,
ResponseStatusCode
Next step
Get started with MCP Server for Enterprise

--- Page 1816 of 2193 ---
Last updated on 11/25/2025

--- Page 1817 of 2193 ---
Microsoft 365 usage analytics overview
） Important
Starting in March 2026, the Company, City, and ProxyAddresses field filters in the User
Activity tab will no longer be supported.
To continue filtering activity data by company, city and proxy addresses attributes, you
can join metrics from the Microsoft 365 usage report Graph API with your own data
sources and build a custom dashboard in Power BI or another data visualization tool of
your choice. The following Graph API reports include user-level detail:
getEmailActivityUserDetail
getOneDriveActivityUserDetail
getSharePointActivityUserDetail
getSkypeForBusinessActivityUserDetail
getTeamsUserActivityUserDetail
getYammerActivityUserDetail
If using Microsoft 365 usage report Graph API is not an option for your organization, you
can also export user detail reports directly from the Microsoft 365 admin center as an
alternative.
This article is intended for Microsoft 365 administrators who want to understand what insights
Microsoft 365 usage analytics provides and how the available reports support adoption and
licensing decisions.
Use Microsoft 365 usage analytics within Power BI to gain insights on how your organization is
adopting the various services within Microsoft 365. You can visualize and analyze Microsoft 365
usage data, create custom reports, and share the insights within your organization. You can
also gain insights into how specific regions or departments are using Microsoft 365.
Microsoft 365 usage analytics gives you access to a prebuilt dashboard that provides a cross-
product view of the last 12 months and contains many prebuilt reports. Each report provides
specific usage insights. User-specific information is available for the last full calendar month.
The data model that powers the template app includes user attributes from Active Directory,
enabling you to pivot in certain reports. The following Active Directory attributes are included:

--- Page 1818 of 2193 ---
location, department, and organization.
To start collecting data, see Enable Microsoft 365 usage analytics.
Microsoft 365 usage analytics contains many reports detailed in the following sections.
You can access detailed reports for each area by selecting the data tables. You can view all
prebuilt reports by selecting the tabs at the bottom of the site. For more detailed instructions,
see the following articles:
Navigating and utilizing the reports.
Customizing the reports.
Data availability
Most reports show the last 12 months of data.
User-level details are available for the latest complete calendar month.
Month values shown in reports always refer to the latest complete month unless
otherwise noted.
Executive summary dashboard
The executive summary is a high-level, at-a-glance view of Microsoft 365 for Business
adoption, usage, mobility, communication, collaboration, and storage reports. Business
decision makers use the executive summary. It provides a view into how some individual
services are used, based on all the users who are enabled and those users who are active. All
values of the month shown on the report refer to the latest complete month.
This summary lets you quickly understand usage patterns in Microsoft 365 and how and where
your users are collaborating.

--- Page 1819 of 2193 ---

Microsoft 365 reports overview
The Microsoft 365 overview report contains the following reports. You can view them by
choosing the tab on top of the report page. All values of the month shown on the top section
of the report refer to the latest complete month.
Adoption: Offers an all-up summary of adoption trends. Use the reports in this section to
learn how your users adopted Microsoft 365, and how overall usage of the individual
services changed month over month. In this report, you can see:
How many users are enabled.
How many users actively use Microsoft 365.
How many users are returning users.
How many users are using the product for the first time.
Usage: Offers a drill-down view into the volume of active users and the key activities for
each product for the last 12 months. Use the reports in this section to learn how people in
your organization are using Microsoft 365.
Communication: You can see at a glance whether people in your organization prefer to
stay in touch by using Teams, Viva Engage, email, or Teams calls. You can observe if there
are shifts in patterns in the use of communication tools among your users.
Collaboration: See how people in your organization use OneDrive and SharePoint to
store documents and collaborate with each other, and how these trends evolve month

--- Page 1820 of 2193 ---
over month. You can also see how many users shared documents internally or externally
and how many users used SharePoint sites or OneDrive accounts, broken out by owners
and other collaborators.
Storage: Use this report to track cloud storage for mailboxes, OneDrive, and SharePoint
sites.
Mobility: Track which clients and devices people use to connect to email, Teams, or Viva
Engage.
Activation and licensing reports
The activation and license page offers reports on Microsoft 365 activation. It shows how many
users downloaded and activated Microsoft 365 apps and how many licenses your organization
assigned. The month value towards the top refers to the current month, and the metrics reflect
values aggregated from the beginning of the month to the current date.
Activation: Track service plan activations (for example, Microsoft 365 Apps for enterprise,
Project, and Visio) in your organization. Each person with a Microsoft 365 license can
install products on up to five devices. You can also use reports in this section to see the
devices on which people installed Microsoft 365 productivity apps. To activate a plan, a
user must install the app and sign in by using their account.
Licensing: This report contains an overview of license types, the count of users who were
assigned each license type, and the license assignment distribution for each month. The
month value towards the top refers to the current month, and the metrics reflect values
aggregated from the beginning of the month to the current date.
Product usage reports
This report contains a separate report for each Microsoft 365 service, including Exchange,
Microsoft 365 groups, OneDrive, SharePoint, Teams, and Viva Engage. Each report contains
total enabled versus total active user reports, counts of entities such as mailboxes, sites,
groups, accounts, and activity type reports where appropriate. All values of the month shown in
the top section of the report refer to the latest complete month.
User activity reports
User activity reports are available for certain individual services. These reports provide user-
level detail usage data joined with Active Directory attributes. In addition, the Department

--- Page 1821 of 2193 ---
Adoption report lets you slice by Active Directory attributes so that you can see active users
across all individual services. All metrics are aggregated for the latest complete month. To view
the content date, go to the table page and select the UserActivity table where the value under
TimeFrame provides the reporting period.
７ Note
Global Reader and Usage Summary Reports Reader don't have permission to view the user
activity reports.
Frequently asked questions (FAQs)
For answers to frequently asked questions about Microsoft 365 usage analytics, see Microsoft
365 usage analytics FAQs.
Related content
Enable Microsoft 365 usage analytics.
Navigate and utilize the reports in Microsoft 365 usage analytics.
Microsoft 365 Reports in the Microsoft 365 admin center.
Last updated on 04/15/2026

--- Page 1822 of 2193 ---
Microsoft 365 usage analytics overview
FAQ
This article provides answers to frequently asked questions that administrators might have
about Microsoft 365 usage analytics. For more information about Microsoft 365 usage
analytics, see Microsoft 365 usage analytics overview.
Is the template app available through for
purchase or is it free?
The template app isn't free. A Power BI Pro license is required. For details, see prerequisites for
installing, customizing, and distributing a template app.
To share the dashboards with others, see Share dashboards and reports.
Who can connect to Microsoft 365 usage
analytics?
You must have one of the following roles to connect to the template app:
Exchange admin.
Teams admin.
SharePoint admin.
Global reader.
Report reader.
Usage Summary Reports Reader.
For more information, see About admin roles.
７ Note
Global Reader and Usage Summary Reports Reader can only access tenant level
aggregates in Microsoft 365 usage analytics. They don't have permission to view the user
activity reports.
Who can customize the usage analytics
reports?

--- Page 1823 of 2193 ---
Only the user who makes the initial connection to the template app can customize the reports
or create new reports in the Power BI web interface. For instructions, see Customizing the
reports in Microsoft 365 usage analytics.
Can I only customize the reports from the
Power BI web interface?
In addition to customizing the reports from the Power BI web interface, users can also use
Power BI Desktop to connect directly to the Microsoft 365 reporting service to build their own
reports.
How can I get the pbit file that this
dashboard is associated with?
You can access the pbit file from the Microsoft Download Center .
Who can view the dashboards and reports?
If you connect to the template app, you can share it with anyone by using the sharing
functionality. Power BI licensing requires that both the user sharing and the user with whom a
dashboard is shared have Power BI Pro or Power BI Premium.
Can anyone share the dashboard, or does it
have to be the person who connected to
the dashboard?
When sharing the dashboard, you can either:
Allow users to reshare the dashboard with others.
Not allow users to reshare the dashboard with others.
You can set this option at the time of sharing.
Is it possible to work on and customize the
same template app with a group of

--- Page 1824 of 2193 ---
people?
Yes. To enable a group of admins to work together on the same template app, use the app
workspace functionality of Power BI. For more information, see How should I collaborate and
share dashboards and reports?
Which timeframe is data available?
Most of the reports display data for the previous 12 months. However, some of the charts
might show less history since data collection for different products and reports started at
different times. Therefore, data for the full 12 months might not be available. All the reports
eventually build up to 12 months of history. Reports that show user level details show data for
the previous complete month.
What data does the template app include?
The data in the template app currently covers the same set of activity metrics available in the
Activity Reports. As Microsoft adds reports to the activity reports, they'll add them to the
template app in a future release.
How does the data in the template app
differ from the data in the usage reports?
The underlying data you see in the template app matches the data you see in the activity
reports in the Microsoft 365 admin center . The key differences are:
In the Microsoft 365 admin center, you can view data for the last 7, 30, 90, or 180 days.
The template app presents data on a monthly basis for up to 12 months.
In addition, the template app only shows user-level details for the last complete month for
users who were assigned a product license and performed an activity.
When should I use the template app and
when should I use the usage reports?
The Activity Reports are a good starting point to understand usage and adoption of Microsoft
365. The template app combines the Microsoft 365 usage data and your organization's Active
Directory information. When admins use the visual analytics capabilities of Power BI, they can

--- Page 1825 of 2193 ---
analyze the data set. This capability enables admins to not just visualize and analyze Microsoft
365 usage data, but also slice it by Active Directory properties such as departments, location,
and more. They can also create custom reports and share the insights within their organization.
How often is the data refreshed?
When you connect to the template app for the first time, it automatically populates with your
data for the previous 12 months. After that, the template app data refreshes weekly. You can
choose to modify the refresh schedule if your use of this data demands a different update
rhythm.
The back-end Microsoft 365 service refreshes data on a daily basis and provides data that is
between 5 and 8 days latent from the current date.
The Content date column in each dataset represents the freshness date of the data in the
template app.
How is an active user defined?
The definition of active user is the same as the definition of an active user in the activity
reports.
What SharePoint site collections does the
SharePoint reports include?
The current version of the template app includes file activity from SharePoint team sites and
SharePoint group sites.
Which groups does the Microsoft 365
Groups usage report include?
The current version of the template app includes usage from:
Outlook groups.
Viva Engage groups.
SharePoint groups.
It doesn't include groups related to Microsoft Teams or Planner.

--- Page 1826 of 2193 ---
When do updated versions of the template
app become available?
Major changes to the template app are released twice a year, which might include new reports
or new data. Minor changes to the reports might be released more frequently.
Can I integrate the data from the template
app into existing solutions?
You can retrieve the data in the template app through the Microsoft 365 APIs (in preview).
When they ship to production, they merge within the Microsoft Graph reporting APIs.
Are there plans to expand the template
app to show usage data from other
Microsoft products?
The feature is under consideration for future improvements. For updates, see Microsoft 365
Roadmap .
How can I pivot by company information in
Active Directory?
Company information is included in one of the Active Directory fields in the template app. You
can see it as a prebuilt filter in the Product User activity reports. It's available as a column in
the UserState table.
Can I bring in more fields from Active
Directory?
You can customize this data by connecting to the Microsoft Graph reporting APIs to pull
additional fields from Microsoft Entra ID and join to the dataset.

--- Page 1827 of 2193 ---
Can I aggregate the information in the
template app across multiple
subscriptions?
Currently, the template app supports a single subscription because the template app is
associated with the credentials you use to initially connect to it.
Can I see usage by plan, such as E1 or E3?
The template app shows usage at the product level. It provides data for the different
subscriptions assigned to users, but you can't correlate user activity to the specific subscription
assigned to a user.
Can I integrate other data sets into the
template app?
By using Power BI Desktop, you can connect to the Microsoft 365 APIs (in preview) to bring in
more data sources to combine with the template app data.
For more information, see the Customize the reports in Microsoft 365 usage analytics.
Can I see the Top Users reports for a
specific timeframe?
All user-level reports present aggregated data for the previous month.
Does the template app support
localization?
Localization isn't currently on the roadmap.
I have a specific question about the data
I'm seeing for my organization. Who can I
reach out to?

--- Page 1828 of 2193 ---
You can use the feedback button in the Microsoft 365 admin center activity overview page,
or you can open a support case to get help with the template app.
How can partners access the data?
If a partner delegates admin rights, they can connect to the template app on behalf of their
customer.
Can I hide identifiable information such as
user, group, and site names in reports?
By default, the reports hide user-specific data. To change the setting, see Display user-specific
data.

--- Page 1829 of 2193 ---
Enable Microsoft 365 usage analytics
To enable Microsoft 365 usage analytics in a Microsoft 365 US Government Community Cloud
(GCC) tenant, see Connect to Microsoft 365 Government Community Cloud (GCC) data with
Usage Analytics.
Before you begin
To get started with Microsoft 365 usage analytics, you must first make the data available in the
Microsoft 365 admin center , then select Reports > Usage and initiate the template app in
Power BI.
Get Power BI
If you don't already have Power BI, you can sign up for Power BI Pro . Select Try free to sign up
for a trial, or Buy now to get Power BI Pro.
You can also expand Products to buy a version of Power BI.
７ Note
You must have a Power BI Pro license to install, customize, and distribute a template app. For
more information, please see Prerequisites.
To share your data, both you and the people who you share the data with need a Power BI Pro
license. Or the content needs to be in a workspace in a Power BI premium service.
Enable the template app
To enable the template app, you have to be a Global administrator.
） Important
Microsoft recommends that you use roles with the fewest permissions. Using roles with the
fewest permissions helps improve security for your organization. Global Administrator is a
highly privileged role that should be limited to emergency scenarios when you can't use an

--- Page 1830 of 2193 ---
existing role. For more information, see About administrator roles in the Microsoft 365
admin center.
For more information, see about admin roles.
1. Sign in to the Microsoft 365 admin center .
2. From the left navigation bar, select … Show all, and then select Settings to expand it.
3. Under Settings, select Org Settings .
4. In the Org Settings page, select the Services tab, and then select Reports.
5. Under Microsoft 365 usage analytics in the Reports panel, select the option Make report
data available to Microsoft 365 usage analytics for Power BI.
6. Select Save.
The data collection process completes in two to 48 hours depending on the size of your tenant.
The Go to Power BI button is enabled (no longer gray) when data collection is complete. Once
complete, the app provides historical usage data at your organization level.
７ Note
The data for the "User Activity" tab is only refreshed after the 15th day of the current month
and the first day of the next month, so it will remain empty initially until the first refresh is
completed.
Start the template app
To start the template app, you have to have one of the following roles:
Report Reader.
Exchange Administrator.
Skype for Business Administrator.
SharePoint Administrator.
1. Copy the tenant ID and select Go to Power BI.
2. When you get to Power BI, sign in. Then Select Apps->Get apps from the navigation menu.

--- Page 1831 of 2193 ---
3. In the Apps tab, type Microsoft 365 in the search box and then select Microsoft 365 usage
analytics > Get it now.
4. Once the app is installed, open it by selecting the tile.
5. Select Explore app to view the app with sample data. Choose Connect to connect the app
to your organization's data.
6. Choose Connect, on the Connect to Microsoft 365 usage analytics screen, then type in the
tenant ID (without dashes) you copied in step (1), and select Next.
7. On the next screen, select OAuth2 as the Authentication method > Sign in. If you choose
any other authentication method, the connection to the template app fails.

--- Page 1832 of 2193 ---
8. After the template app is instantiated, the Microsoft 365 usage analytics dashboard is
available in Power BI on the web. The initial loading of the dashboard takes between 2 to 30
minutes.
Tenant level aggregates will be available in all reports after opting in. User-level details will only
become available around the 5th of the next calendar month after opting in. This impacts all
reports under User Activity (See Navigate and utilize the reports in Microsoft 365 usage analytics
for tips on how to view and use these reports).
Display user-specific data
Reports provide information about your organization's usage data. By default, usernames and
display names in usage reports are anonymous. Global administrators can update the settings to
reveal usernames and display names if their organization's privacy practices allow it.
1. Sign in to the Microsoft 365 admin center .
2. From the left navigation bar, select … Show all, and then select Settings to expand it.
3. Under Settings, select Org Settings .
4. In the Org Settings page, select the Services tab, and then select Reports.
5. In the Reports panel, select the option Display Concealed user, group, and site names in all
reports.
6. Select Save.
It takes a few minutes for these changes to take effect. Showing identifiable user information is a
logged event in the Microsoft Purview portal audit log.
Related content
About usage analytics.
Get the latest version of usage analytics.
Navigate and utilize the reports in Microsoft 365 usage analytics.
Last updated on 04/30/2026

--- Page 1833 of 2193 ---
Update to the latest version of Microsoft
365 usage analytics
The template app might be refreshed with new data or new visualizations several times per year.
Your existing instance continues to work during the update. However, if you want the latest
version, you need to create a new instance and apply your customizations to the new instance.
For more information, see Enable Microsoft 365 usage analytics.
Last updated on 05/01/2026

--- Page 1834 of 2193 ---
Navigate and utilize the reports in Microsoft
365 usage analytics
The dashboard provides you with a quick overview of the main usage and adoption metrics. By
selecting the top-level metrics, you can access reports that provide more details and insights.
Each report tab contains data visualizations specific to an aspect of usage and adoption for your
organization. The data collected is explained in the title of each report. Additionally, a tile appears
that contains further information about the visualizations on the report tab that you're viewing.
To get started with your reports, here are some tips:
Use the left navigation tabs or on a related metric on the Executive Summary page to
navigate to each top-level report.

To navigate to different reports within a level, use the navigation tabs at the top of each
top-level report.

Many reports contain a slicer where you can filter on the product, Microsoft Entra attribute,
or activity that you want to view. These filters can be either single-select or multi-select.

--- Page 1835 of 2193 ---


Hover data points to view a call out that contains details.

The user who instantiates the template app has the ability to customize the report to their needs.
To customize the template app:
Select Edit report at the top of the report.

Create your own visuals by using the underlying datasets.
Use Power BI Desktop to bring in your own data sources.
To share your reports, just select the share button at the top of the page.
To learn how to customize the reports, see Customizing the reports in Microsoft 365 usage
analytics.
You can find lots of additional information in the Power BI help documentation:
Power BI basic concepts
Learn about dashboard, datasets, reports, and other Power BI concepts.
Get started with Power BI

--- Page 1836 of 2193 ---
Learn the basic functionality in Power BI. Find links to how to use Power BI Desktop.
Share dashboards and reports
Learn how to share reports with your colleagues or people outside your organization. You
can also share the report or a filtered version of the report.
Last updated on 05/01/2026

--- Page 1837 of 2193 ---
Active user in Microsoft 365 usage reports
Article • 04/23/2025
Active user in usage reports
An active user of Microsoft 365 products for Microsoft 365 usage analytics and the Activity
Reports in the admin center is defined as follows.
ﾉ Expand table
Product Definition of an active user Notes
Exchange Any user who performed any of the following No calendar information is represented. It
Online actions: Mark as read, send messages, create is added in an upcoming update.
appointments, send meeting requests, accept
(as tentative) or decline meeting requests,
cancel meetings.
SharePoint Any user who interacted with a file by The active user metrics for SharePoint
Online creating, modifying, viewing, deleting, sharing Online in the Microsoft 365 Usage
internally or externally, or synchronizing to Analytics template app only reflect users
clients on any site or viewed a page on any who did file activity against a SharePoint
site. Team site or a Group site. The template
app will be updated to synchronize the
definition to the same as that on the
usage reports in the admin center.
OneDrive Any user who interacted with a file by
for creating, modifying, viewing, deleting, sharing
Business internally or externally, or synchronizing to
clients.
Viva Any user who read, posted, or liked a
Engage message on Viva Engage.
Skype for Any user who participated in a peer-to-peer
Business session (including instant messaging, audio
and video calls, application sharing, and file
transfers) or who has organized or
participated in a conference.
Microsoft Any user who activated their Microsoft 365
365 Apps for enterprise, Visio Pro, or Project Pro
subscription on at least one device.
Microsoft Any group member that has mailbox activity This definition will be enhanced with
365 Groups (if a message was sent to the group) group site file activity and Viva Engage
group activity. For example, file activity on

--- Page 1838 of 2193 ---
Product Definition of an active user Notes
group site and message posted to Viva
Engage group associated with the group.
This data is currently not available in the
Microsoft 365 Usage Analytics template
app
Microsoft Any user who participated in chat messages,
Teams private chat messages, calls, meetings, or
other activity. Other activity is defined as the
number of other team activities by the user
some of which include, and not limited to:
liking messages, apps, working on files,
searching, following teams and channel and
favoriting them.
Adoption Metrics
Microsoft 365 usage analytics contains more adoption metrics related to active users to show
adoption of the products over time. These metrics are valid for the month, year, and product
selected and are defined as follows.
ﾉ Expand table
Metric Description
EnabledUsers Number of users enabled to use the product in the month.
ActiveUsers Number of users active in the month.
MoMReturningUsers Number of users active in the month that were also active in the preceding
month.
FirstTimeUsers Number of users active in the month that never used the service before.
CumulativeActiveUsers Number of users active in the month plus any preceding month.
ActiveUsers(%) Percent of users, rounded to the nearest tenth, active in the month compared
to the number of users enabled in that month.
MoMReturningUsers(%) Percent of users, rounded to the nearest tenth, active in the month that were
also active in the preceding month compared to the number of active users.
MoMReturningUsers, FirstTimeUsers, & CumulativeActiveUsers were reset starting January 1,
2018 with the inclusion of Microsoft Teams.

--- Page 1839 of 2193 ---
Customize the reports in Microsoft 365
usage analytics
Microsoft 365 usage analytics provides a dashboard in Power BI that offers insights into how
users adopt and use Microsoft 365. The dashboard is just a starting point to interact with the
usage data. You can customize the reports for more personalized insights.
You can also use Power BI Desktop to further customize your reports by connecting them to
other data sources to gain richer insights about your business.
Customizing reports in the browser
The following two examples show how to modify an existing visual and how to create a new
visual.
Modify an existing visual
This example shows how to modify the Activation tab within the Activation/Licensing report.
1. Within the Activation/Licensing report, select the Activation tab.
2. Enter the edit mode by choosing the Edit button on the top through the button.
3. On the top right, choose Duplicate this page.

--- Page 1840 of 2193 ---
4. In the bottom right, choose any of the bar charts that show the count of users activating
based on the OS such as Android, iOS, Mac, and more.
5. In the Visualizations area to the right, select the X next to Mac Count to remove it from the
visual.
Create a new visual
The following example shows how to create a new visual to track new Viva Engage users on a
monthly basis.
1. Go to the Product Usage report by using the left navigation and select the Viva Engage tab.
2. Switch to edit mode by choosing and Edit.
3. At the bottom of the page, select the to create a new page.
4. In the Visualizations area to the right, choose the Stacked bar chart (top row, first from
left).

--- Page 1841 of 2193 ---
5. To make the visualization larger, select the bottom right of that visualization and drag to
resize it.
6. In the Fields area to the right, expand the Calendar table.
7. Drag MonthName to the fields area, directly below the Axis heading in the Visualizations
area.
8. In the Fields area to the right, expand the TenantProductUsage table.
9. Drag FirstTimeUsers to the fields area, directly below the Value heading.
10. Drag Product to the Filters area, directly below the Visual level filters heading.
11. In the Filter Type area that appears, select the Viva Engage check box.

--- Page 1842 of 2193 ---
12. Just below the list of visualizations, choose the Format icon .
13. Expand Title and change the Title Text value to First-Time Viva Engage Users by Month.
14. Change the Text Size value to 12.
15. Change the title of the new page by editing the name of the page on bottom right.
16. Save the report by selecting Reading View on top and then Save.
Customizing the reports in Power BI Desktop
For most customers, modifying the reports and chart visuals in Power BI web is sufficient.
However, some customers might need to join this data with other data sources to gain richer
insights contextual to their own business. In this case, they can customize and build other reports
by using Power BI Desktop. You can download Power BI Desktop for free.
Use the reporting APIs
You can start by connecting directly to the ODATA reporting APIs from Microsoft 365 that power
these reports.
1. Go to Get data > Other > ODATA Feed > Connect.
2. In the URL window, enter https://reports.office.com/pbi/v1.0/<tenantid>.
７ Note

--- Page 1843 of 2193 ---
The reporting APIs are in preview and are subject to change until they go into
production.
3. When prompted to authenticate, enter your Microsoft 365 (organization or school) admin
credentials.
See the Microsoft 365 Usage Analytics Overview FAQ for more information about who is
allowed to access the Microsoft 365 Adoption template app reports.
4. Once you authorize the connection, you see the Navigator window that shows the available
datasets.
Select all and choose Load.
This action downloads the data into your Power BI Desktop. Save this file and then you can
start creating the reports you need.

--- Page 1844 of 2193 ---
Use the Microsoft 365 usage analytics template
You can also use the Power BI template file that corresponds to the Microsoft 365 usage analytics
reports as a starting point to connect to the data. The advantage of using the pbit file is that it
already has the connection string established. You can also take advantage of all the custom
measures that are created on top of the data that the base schema returns and build on it further.
You can download the Power BI template file from the Microsoft Download Center . After you
download the Power BI template file, follow these steps to get started:
1. Open the pbit file.
2. Enter your tenant ID value in the dialog.
3. Enter your admin credentials to authenticate to Microsoft 365 when prompted.
Once authorized, the data is refreshed in the Power BI file.
Data load might take some time. When it's complete, you can save the file as a .pbix file and
continue to customize the reports or bring another data source into this report.
4. Follow Getting started with Power BI documentation to understand how to build reports,
publish them to the Power BI service, and share with your organization. Following this path
for customization and sharing might require more Power BI licenses. See Power BI licensing
guidance for details.
Last updated on 05/04/2026

--- Page 1845 of 2193 ---
Connect to Microsoft 365 Government
Community Cloud (GCC) data with
Usage Analytics
Use the following procedures to connect to your data with the Microsoft 365 Usage Analytics
report in a Microsoft 365 Government Community Cloud (GCC) tenant.
７ Note
These instructions are specifically for Microsoft 365 GCC tenants and aren't applicate to GCC
High and DOD.
Before you begin
To initially configure Microsoft 365 Usage Analytics:
You must be a Microsoft 365 Global Administrator to enable data collection.
） Important
Microsoft recommends that you use roles with the fewest permissions. Using roles with the
fewest permissions helps improve security for your organization. Global Administrator is a
highly privileged role that should be limited to emergency scenarios when you can't use an
existing role. For more information, see About administrator roles in the Microsoft 365
admin center.
You must have the Power BI Desktop application to use the template file.
You must have a Power BI Pro license or Premium capacity to publish and view the report.
Step 1: Make your organization's data available for the
Microsoft 365 Usage Analytics report
1. In the Microsoft 365 admin center, expand the navigation menu, select Reports, then select
Usage.

--- Page 1846 of 2193 ---
2. On the Usage Reports page, in the Microsoft 365 Usage Analytics section, select Get
Started.
3. Under Enable Power BI for usage analytics, select Make organizational usage data
available to Microsoft usage analytics for Power BI, and then select Save.
This starts a process to make your organizations data accessible for this report, and you
might see a message that states We're getting your data ready for Microsoft 365 usage
analytics. This process can take 24 hours to complete.
4. When your organizations data is ready, refreshing the page shows a message stating that
your data is now available, and provides your tenant ID number. You must use the tenant ID
in a later step when you attempt to connect to your tenant data.
） Important
When your data is available, don't select Go to Power BI, which takes you to the Power
BI Marketplace. The template app for this report required by GCC tenants isn't available

--- Page 1847 of 2193 ---
in the Power BI Marketplace.
Step 2: Download the Power BI template, connect to
your data, and publish the report
Microsoft 365 GCC users can download and use the Microsoft 365 Usage Analytics report
template file to connect to their data. You would need Power BI Desktop to open and use the
template file.
７ Note
Currently, a template app for the Microsoft 365 Usage Analytics report isn't available for GCC
tenants in the Power BI Marketplace.
1. After downloading the Power BI template , open it using Power BI Desktop.
2. When prompted for a TenantID, enter the tenant ID you received when you prepared your
organization's data for this report in step 1. Then select Load. It can take several minutes for
your data to load.
3. When loading completes, your report is displayed, and you see an executive summary of
your data.

--- Page 1848 of 2193 ---
4. Save your changes to the report.
5. Select Publish in the Power BI Desktop menu to publish the report to the Power BI Online
service where it can be viewed. This requires either a Power BI Pro license or Power BI
Premium capacity. As part of the publish process, you must select a destination to publish
to an available workspace in the Power BI Online Service.
Related content
About usage analytics
Get the latest version of usage analytics
Navigate and utilize the reports in Microsoft 365 usage analytics
Last updated on 05/06/2026

--- Page 1849 of 2193 ---
Microsoft 365 usage analytics data model
Summarize this article for me
Data for the Microsoft 365 usage analytics tables
The Microsoft 365 usage analytics data model connects to an API that exposes
multidimensional data about service usage and adoption. The APIs that Microsoft 365 usage
analytics uses to generate its data come from various generally available Graph APIs. The
Microsoft 365 usage analytics API itself isn't generally available.
７ Note
For more information, see Working with Microsoft 365 usage reports in Microsoft
Graph.
This API provides information about the monthly trend of usage of the various Microsoft 365
services. For the exact data returned by the API, see the table in the following section.
Data tables returned by the Microsoft 365
reporting API
ﾉ Expand table
Table name Information in the table Date range
Tenant Product Monthly totals of: Monthly aggregated data for a
Usage Enabled users. rolling 12‑month period, including
Active users. the current partial month.
Month-over-month retained users.
First-time users.
Cumulative active users.
Tenant Product Monthly totals of activities and active user Monthly aggregated data for a
Activity counts for product activities. rolling 12‑month period, including
the current partial month.
For more information about the activities
returned in this table, see Active user in
Microsoft 365 usage reports.
Tenant Office Number of Microsoft Office subscriptions End‑of‑month state data for a
Licenses assigned to users. rolling 12‑month period, including

--- Page 1850 of 2193 ---
Table name Information in the table Date range
the current partial month.
Tenant Mailbox Mailbox data, including: End‑of‑month state data for a
Usage Total mailbox count. rolling 12‑month period, including
Storage usage. the current partial month.
Tenant Client Number of users actively using specific Monthly aggregated data for a
Usage clients or devices to connect to: rolling 12‑month period, including
Exchange Online. the current partial month.
Teams.
Viva Engage.
Tenant SharePoint site data, including: End‑of‑month state data for a
SharePoint Usage Total sites (Teams or Groups sites). rolling 12‑month period, including
Number of documents. the current partial month.
File count by activity type.
Storage used.
Tenant OneDrive OneDrive account data, including: End‑of‑month state data for a
Usage Number of accounts. rolling 12‑month period, including
Number of documents across the current partial month.
OneDrives.
Storage used.
File count by activity type.
Tenant Microsoft Microsoft 365 Groups usage data, including: End‑of‑month state data for a
365 Groups Mailbox. rolling 12‑month period, including
Usage SharePoint. the current partial month.
Viva Engage.
Tenant Office Office subscription activation data, including: End‑of‑month state data for a
Activation Total activations. rolling 12‑month period, including
Activations per device (Android, iOS, the current partial month.
Mac, PC).
Activations by service plan (for
example, Microsoft 365 Apps for
enterprise, Visio, Project).
User State User metadata, including: Users who had a license assigned
Display name. during the last complete month.
Assigned products.
Location.
Department.
Title.

--- Page 1851 of 2193 ---
Table name Information in the table Date range
Company.
Includes users who were assigned a license
during the last complete month. Each user
has a unique user ID.
User Activity Per-user activity data for licensed users. Users who performed an activity in
any service during the last complete
For more information about the activities month.
returned in this table, see Active user in
Microsoft 365 usage reports.
To see the detailed information for each data table, see the following sections.
Data table - User State
The User State table provides user-level details for all users who have a license assigned during
the last complete month. It brings in data from Microsoft Entra ID.
ﾉ Expand table
Name Description
UserId Unique user ID that represents a user and enables joining with other data tables
within the data set.
Timeframe Month value for which this table has data.
UPN User principal name (UPN) that uniquely identifies the user to join with other
external data sources.
DisplayName User's display name.
IDType Account user used to sign in. Values can be:
1 if the user is a Viva Engage user who connects using their Viva Engage
ID.
0 if the user connects to Viva Engage using their Microsoft 365 ID.
HasLicenseEXO Set to true if the user is assigned a license and enabled to use Exchange on the
last day of the month.
HasLicenseODB Set to true if the user is assigned a license and enabled to use OneDrive on the
last day of the month.
HasLicenseSPO Set to true if the user is assigned a license and enabled to use SharePoint on the
last day of the month.

--- Page 1852 of 2193 ---
Name Description
HasLicenseYAM Set to true if the user is assigned a license and enabled to use Viva Engage on
the last day of the month.
HasLicenseSFB Set to true if the user is assigned a license and enabled to use Teams on the last
day of the month.
HasLicenseTeams Set to true if the user is assigned a license and enabled to use Microsoft Teams
on the last day of the month.
Company Company data represented in Microsoft Entra ID for this user.
Department Department data represented in Microsoft Entra ID for this user.
LocationCity City data represented in Microsoft Entra ID for this user.
LocationCountry Country/region data represented in Microsoft Entra ID for this user.
LocationState State data represented in Microsoft Entra ID for this user.
LocationOffice User's office.
Title Title data represented in Microsoft Entra ID for this user.
Deleted True if the user was deleted from Microsoft 365 in the last complete month.
DeletedDate Date when the user was deleted from Microsoft 365.
YAM_State State of the user in the Viva Engage system. Values can be:
Active.
Deleted.
Suspended.
YAM_ActivationDate Date the user entered the state of being active in Viva Engage.
YAM_DeletionDate Date the user entered the state of being deleted in Viva Engage.
YAM_SuspensionDate Date the user entered the state of being suspended in Viva Engage.
Data table - User Activity
The User Activity table contains data about each user who had an activity in any of the services
in the previous month.
ﾉ Expand table

--- Page 1853 of 2193 ---
Name Description
UserID Unique user ID that represents a user and enables joining with other
data tables within the data set.
Timeframe Month value for which this table represents data.
EXO_EmailSent Number of emails sent.
EXO_EmailReceived Number of emails received.
EXO_EmailRead Number of email read activities performed by the user. Includes:
Multiple reads of the same email.
Emails received in previous periods.
EXO_AppointmentCreated Number of appointments created.
EXO_MeetingAccepted Number of meetings accepted.
EXO_MeetingCancelled Number of meetings canceled.
EXO_MeetingDeclined Number of meetings declined.
EXO_MeetingSent Number of meetings sent.
ODB_FileViewedModified Number of files the user interacted with on any OneDrive. Includes the
following actions:
Create.
Update.
Delete.
View.
Download.
ODB_FileSynched Number of files the user synchronized on any OneDrive.
ODB_FileSharedInternally Number of files shared internally from any OneDrive including sharing
with users within groups.
ODB_FileSharedExternally Number of files the user shared externally from any OneDrive.
ODB_AccessedByOwner Number of OneDrive sites the user interacted with that they own.
ODB_AccessedByOthers Number of OneDrive sites owned by another user that the user
interacted with.
SPO_GroupFileViewedModified Number of files the user interacted with on any group site.
SPO_GroupFileSynched Number of files the user synchronized on any group site.
SPO_GroupFileSharedInternally Number of files shared internally from any group site including sharing
within groups.

--- Page 1854 of 2193 ---
Name Description
SPO_GroupFileSharedExternally Number of files the user shared externally from any group site.
SPO_GroupAccessedByOwner Number of group sites the user interacted with that they own.
SPO_GroupAccessedByOthers Number of group sites owned by another user that the user interacted
with.
SPO_OtherFileViewedModified Number of files the user interacted with on any other site.
SPO_OtherFileSynched Number of files the user synchronized from any other site.
SPO_OtherFileSharedInternally Number of files shared internally from any other site including sharing
within groups.
SPO_OtherFileSharedExternally Number of files the user shared externally from any other site.
SPO_OtherAccessedByOwner Number of other sites the user interacted with that they own.
SPO_OtherAccessedByOthers Number of other sites owned by another user that the user interacted
with.
SPO_TeamFileViewedModified Number of files the user interacted with on any team site.
SPO_TeamFileSynched Number of files the user synchronized from any team site.
SPO_TeamFileSharedInternally Number of files shared internally from any team site including sharing
within groups.
SPO_TeamFileSharedExternally Number of files the user shared externally from any team site.
SPO_TeamAccessedByOwner Number of team sites the user interacted with that they own.
SPO_TeamAccessedByOthers Number of team sites owned by another user that the user interacted
with.
Teams_ChatMessages Number of chat messages sent.
Teams_ChannelMessage Number of messages posted to channels.
Teams_CallParticipate Number of calls the user participated in.
Teams_MeetingParticipate Number of meetings the user joined.

--- Page 1855 of 2193 ---
Name Description
Teams_HasOtherAction Boolean value indicating whether the user performed other actions in
Microsoft Teams. The user is considered active but has a zero value for
the following items:
Chat Messages.
1:1 calls.
Channel Messages.
Total Meetings.
Meetings organized.
YAM_MessagePost Number of Viva Engage messages the user posted.
YAM_MessageLiked Number of Viva Engage messages the user liked.
YAM_MessageRead Number of Viva Engage messages the user read.
SFB_P2PSummary Number of peer-to-peer sessions the user took part in.
SFB_ConfOrgSummary Number of conference sessions the user organized.
SFB_ConfPartSummary Number of conference sessions the user participated in.
Data table - Tenant Product Usage
The Tenant Product Usage table provides month-over-month adoption data in terms of the
following types of user for each product within Microsoft 365:
Enabled.
Active.
Returning
First-time users.
The Microsoft 365 values represent active usage in any of the products.
ﾉ Expand table
Name Description
Product Name of products for which the usage information is summarized.
The Microsoft 365 value represents activity across any of the products.
Timeframe Month value.
One row per product per month.
Includes the last 12 months, including the current partial month.

--- Page 1856 of 2193 ---
Name Description
EnabledUsers Number of users enabled to use the product for the timeframe value.
Users enabled for any portion of the month are counted.
ActiveUsers Number of users who performed an intentional activity in the product for the
timeframe value.
A user is counted as active if they performed one of the key product
activities.
Key activities are listed in the Tenant Product Activity table.
CumulativeActiveUsers Number of users enabled to use the product.
Includes users who used the product at least once since data collection
started.
Calculated up to and including the timeframe month.
MoMReturningUsers Number of users active in the timeframe month.
Users must also be active during the previous month.
FirstTimeUsers Number of users who became active in the timeframe month for the first time.
Activity is measured from the start of data collection in the new usage
system.
Once a user is counted as a first-time user, the user is never counted
again.
Content Date If the timeframe is:
The current month, the latest date with available data.
A previous month, the last date of that month.
Data table - Tenant Product Activity
The Tenant Product Activity table provides monthly totals of activity and active user count for
various activities within the products.
ﾉ Expand table
Name Description
Timeframe Month value.
One row per product per month.
Includes the last 12 months, including the current partial month.
Product Name of the product within Microsoft 365 for which usage data is available.

--- Page 1857 of 2193 ---
Name Description
Activity Name of the activity in a product that is used to showcase active use of the
product.
ActivityCount Total number of actions counted for each activity across all active users.
For SharePoint and OneDrive activities, this value represents the number
of distinct documents users interacted with.
ActiveUserCount Number of users who performed the activity within the product.
TotalDurationInMinute Total duration, in minutes, across all active users.
Applies to audio or video sessions in applicable Microsoft Teams
activities.
Content Date If the timeframe is:
The current month, the latest date with available data.
A previous month, the last date of that month.
Data table - Tenant Mailbox Usage
The Tenant Mailbox Usage table shows summary data for all licensed Exchange Online users
with a user mailbox. It shows the end of month state for all user mailboxes. You can't add the
data in this table across multiple months. The latest month's data in this table shows the most
recent state.
ﾉ Expand table
Name Description
TotalMailboxes Number of user mailboxes for the Microsoft 365 subscription.
IssueWarningQuota Total quota for issuing warnings across all user mailboxes.
ProhibitSendQuota Total quota for prohibiting send actions across all user mailboxes.
ProhibitSendReceiveQuota Total quota for prohibiting send and receive actions across all user
mailboxes.
TotalItemBytes Amount of storage used across all user mailboxes, in bytes.
MailboxesNoWarning Number of user mailboxes that are under the storage warning
limit.
MailboxesIssueWarning Number of user mailboxes that were issued a storage quota
warning.

--- Page 1858 of 2193 ---
Name Description
MailboxesExceedSendQuota Number of user mailboxes that exceeded the send quota.
MailboxesExceedSendReceiveQuota Number of user mailboxes that exceeded the send and receive
quota.
DeletedMailboxes Number of user mailboxes deleted in the timeframe.
Timeframe Month value.
Content Date If the timeframe is:
The current month, the latest date with available data.
A previous month, the last date of that month.
Data table - Tenant Client Usage
The Tenant Client Usage table provides month-over-month summary data about the clients
that users use to connect to:
Exchange Online.
Microsoft Teams.
Viva Engage.
This table doesn't yet have client use data for SharePoint and OneDrive.
ﾉ Expand table
Name Description
Product Name of the product within Microsoft 365 for which client usage data is available.
ClientId Name of each device used to connect to the product.
UserCount Number of users who used each client for each product.
Timeframe Month value.
Content Date If the timeframe is:
The current month, the latest date with available data.
A previous month, the last date of that month.
Data table - Tenant SharePoint Usage

--- Page 1859 of 2193 ---
The Tenant SharePoint Usage table shows month-over-month summary data about the usage
or activity of SharePoint sites. The data in this table only covers Team Sites and Group sites and
represents the end‑of‑month state of SharePoint sites:
The values reflect the final totals at the end of the month, not interim activity.
During the month, users might create, delete, and add files.
Only the state at the end of the month is recorded.
In the following example, the resulting values shown are seven documents and 5 MB, which
represent the end‑of‑month state:
A user creates five documents that use 10 MB of storage.
The user then deletes some files and adds others.
At the end of the month, the site contains seven documents that use 5 MB of storage.
To avoid duplicate counts of aggregations, this table is hidden. It's used as a source to create
two reference tables.
ﾉ Expand table
Name Description
SiteType Site type value. Possible values are:
Any: Represents either team or group sites.
Team.
Group.
TotalSites Number of sites that existed at the end of the timeframe.
DocumentCount Total number of documents that existed on the site at the end of the
timeframe.
DiskUsed Total storage used, summed across all sites at the end of the timeframe.
ActivityType Number of sites that recorded specific types of file activity. Represents
any file activity that was performed. For example:
Any activity.
Active files.
Files shared externally.
Files shared internally.
Files synchronized.

--- Page 1860 of 2193 ---
Name Description
SitesWithOwnerActivities Number of active sites where the site owner performed a file activity on
their own site.
The site owner is the person responsible for the site.
The site owner can be identified using the PowerShell command
get-sposite.
SitesWithNonOwnerActivities Number of active sites summed up for the month where users other than
the site owner performed a file activity.
The site owner is the person responsible for the site.
The site owner can be identified using the PowerShell command
get-sposite.
ActivityTotalSites Number of sites that recorded any activity during the timeframe.
Sites deleted by the end of the timeframe are still counted if they
had activity earlier in the timeframe.
Timeframe Date value.
Used as a many‑to‑one relationship with the Calendar table.
Content Date If the timeframe is:
The current month, the latest date with available data.
A previous month, the last date of that month.
Data table - Tenant OneDrive Usage
The Tenant OneDrive Usage table provides data about the OneDrive accounts. For example:
Number of accounts.
Number of documents across OneDrive accounts.
Storage used.
File count by activity type.
The table also shows the end‑of‑month state of OneDrive accounts:
The values reflect the final state at the end of the month, not changes made during the
month.
Users might create, delete, and add files throughout the month.
Only the end‑of‑month totals are recorded in this table.
In the following example, the table records seven files and 5 MB, which represent the
end‑of‑month state:

--- Page 1861 of 2193 ---
A user creates five documents that use 10 MB of storage.
During the month, the user deletes some files and adds others.
By the end of the month, the account contains seven files that use 5 MB of storage.
ﾉ Expand table
Name Description
SiteType Value is OneDrive.
TotalSites Number of OneDrive accounts that exist at the end of the timeframe.
DocumentCount Total number of documents that exist across all OneDrive accounts at the
end of the timeframe.
DiskUsed Total storage used, summed across all OneDrive accounts at the end of
the timeframe.
ActivityType Number of accounts that recorded specific types of file activity. For
example:
Any activity.
Active files.
Files shared externally.
Files shared internally.
Files synchronized.
SitesWithOwnerActivities Number of active OneDrive accounts where the account owner
performed a file activity on their own account.
SitesWithNonOwnerActivities Number of OneDrive accounts with file activity by users other than the
owner.
ActivityTotalSites Number of OneDrive accounts that recorded any activity during the
timeframe.
Accounts deleted by the end of the timeframe are still counted if
they had activity earlier in the timeframe.
Timeframe Date value.
Used as a many‑to‑one relationship with the Calendar table.
Content Date If the timeframe is:
The current month, the latest date with available data.
A previous month, the last date of that month.
Data table - Tenant Microsoft 365 Groups Usage

--- Page 1862 of 2193 ---
The Tenant Microsoft 365 Groups Usage table provides data about how Microsoft 365 Groups
is used across the organization.
ﾉ Expand table
Name Description
TimeFrame Month value. There's one row per product per month for the
last 12 months, including the current partial month.
GroupType Type of group (private, public, or any).
TotalGroups Number of groups in each group type.
ActiveGroups Number of active groups.
MBX_TotalGroups Number of mailbox groups.
MBX_ActiveGroups Number of active mailbox groups.
MBX_TotalActivities Number of mailbox activities.
MBX_TotalItems Number of mailbox items.
MBX_StorageUsed Quantity of mailbox storage used.
SPO_TotalGroups Number of SharePoint groups.
SPO_ActiveGroups Number of active SharePoint groups.
SPO_FileAccessedActiveGroups Number of SharePoint groups that have file accessed activities.
SPO_FileSyncedActiveGroups Number of SharePoint groups that have file synchronized
activities.
SPO_FileSharedInternallyActiveGroups Number of SharePoint groups that shared activities internally,
or with groups that might include external users.
SPO_FileSharedExternallyActiveGroups Number of SharePoint groups that shared activities externally.
SPO_TotalActivities Number of SharePoint activities.
SPO_FileAccessedActivities Number of SharePoint file accessed activities.
SPO_FileSyncedActivities Number of SharePoint file synchronized activities.
SPO_FileSharedInternallyActivities Number of SharePoint file shared activities internally, or with
groups that might include external members.
SPO_FileSharedExternallyActivities Number of SharePoint file shared activities externally.
SPO_TotalFiles Number of SharePoint files.

--- Page 1863 of 2193 ---
Name Description
SPO_ActiveFiles Number of active SharePoint files.
SPO_StorageUsed Quantity of SharePoint storage used.
YAM_TotalGroups Number of Viva Engage groups.
YAM_ActiveGroups Number of active Viva Engage groups.
YAM_LikedActiveGroups Number of Viva Engage groups with like activity.
YAM_PostedActiveGroups Number of Viva Engage groups with post activity.
YAM_ReadActiveGroups Number of Viva Engage groups with read activity.
YAM_TotalActivities Number of Viva Engage activities.
YAM_LikedActivities Number of Viva Engage like activities.
YAM_PostedActivities Number of Viva Engage post activities.
YAM_ReadActivities Number of Viva Engage read activities.
Data table - Tenant Office Licenses
The Tenant Office Licenses table provides month-over-month summary data about the license
assignment for users.
ﾉ Expand table
Name Description
LicenseName Name of the license.
AssignedCount Number of assigned licenses.
Timeframe Month value.
Data table - Tenant Office Activation
The Tenant Office Activation table provides data about the number of Office subscription
activations across the service plans. For example:
Microsoft 365 Apps for enterprises.
Visio.
Project.

--- Page 1864 of 2193 ---
It also provides data about the number of activations per device (Android, iOS, Mac, or PC).
ﾉ Expand table
Name Description
ServicePlanName Name of the service plan.
TotalEnabled Number of users enabled for the service plan by the end of the timeframe.
TotalActivatedUsers Number of users who activated the service plan by the end of the timeframe.
AndroidCount Number of activations for the service plan on Android devices by the end of the
timeframe.
iOSCount Number of activations for the service plan on iOS devices by the end of the
timeframe.
MacCount Number of activations for the service plan on Mac devices by the end of the
timeframe.
PcCount Number of activations for the service plan on PC devices by the end of the
timeframe.
WinRtCount Number of activations for the service plan on Windows Mobile devices by the end
of the timeframe.
Timeframe Date value.
Used as a many-to-one relationship with the Calendar table.
Content Date If the timeframe is:
The current month, the latest date with available data.
A previous month, the last date of that month.
Last updated on 03/12/2026

--- Page 1865 of 2193 ---
Troubleshooting Microsoft 365 usage
analytics
10/11/2025
Explore the following list of error messages to get help with the most common issues with
Microsoft 365 usage analytics.
We are unable to process your request. You have to
first subscribe to this data from the Microsoft 365
admin center
Error Code: 422
Where you will see this message: In Power BI when you're connecting to the Microsoft 365
Usage Analytics template app, or when directly calling the Microsoft 365 Reporting APIs.
Cause: Before you can connect to the app, you have to subscribe to the data from the
Microsoft 365 admin center. If this step isn't done first, you cannot connect to the template
app, even if you provide your Microsoft 365 tenant ID.
To fix this error: To subscribe to the data, go to the admin center > Reports > Usage and
locate the Microsoft 365 usage analytics tile on the main dashboard page. Select the Get
started button and then in the Reports pane that opens, turn the Make data available to
Microsoft 365 usage analytics for Power BI setting on and Save.
We are processing your data
Where you will see this message: In the Microsoft 365 usage analytics tile, on the Usage
dashboard in the Microsoft 365 admin center.
Cause: When you opt in to seeing data in the template app from the Microsoft 365 admin
center, the Microsoft 365 system starts generating historical usage data for your organization.
Depending on the size of your tenant, this step could take anywhere between 2 hours to 48
hours.
To fix this: Just be patient, but if the message doesn't change to Your data is ready after 3
days, [contact Microsoft 365 for business support](Get support](../get-help-support.md).

--- Page 1866 of 2193 ---
We are unable to process your request at this time.
We are still preparing the data for your
organization
Error Code: 423
Where you will see this message: In Power BI, when you're connecting to the Microsoft 365
Usage Analytics template app or when directly calling the Microsoft 365 Reporting APIs.
Cause: When you opt in to seeing data in the template app from the admin center, the
Microsoft 365 system starts generating historical usage data for your organization. Depending
on the size of your tenant, this step could take anywhere between two hours to 48 hours.
To fix this: Just be patient, but if the message doesn't change to Your data is ready even 3 days
since initiation, contact Microsoft 365 for business support.
The tenant ID you provided is not in the correct
format
Error Code: 400
Where you will see this message: In Power BI, when you're connecting to the Microsoft 365
Usage Analytics template app or when directly calling the Microsoft 365 Reporting APIs.
Cause: The tenant ID is a guid and has to be in the format of xxxxxxxx-xxxx-xxxx-xxxx-
xxxxxxxxxxxx. If you enter any other string in the tenant input box, you get this error.
To fix this error: Go to the admin center > Reports > Usage and locate the Microsoft 365
usage analytics tile on the main dashboard page. The tenant ID is listed on the tile. You can
copy it from here and paste it in the dialog box for connecting to the template app.
The tenant ID you provided is not recognized by
our system
Error Code: 404
Where you will see this message: In Power BI when you're connecting to the Microsoft 365
Usage Analytics template app or when directly calling the Microsoft 365 Reporting APIs.
Cause: The tenant ID you provided isn't valid or doesn't exist.

--- Page 1867 of 2193 ---
To fix this error: Go to the admin center > Reports > Usage and locate the Microsoft 365
usage analytics tile on the main dashboard page. The tenant ID is listed on the tile. You can
copy it from here and paste it in the dialog box for connecting to the template app.
Please re-enter your credentials to sign in to Power
BI again
Error Code: 302
Where you will see this message: In Power BI when you're connecting to the Microsoft 365
Usage Analytics template app or when directly calling the Microsoft 365 Reporting APIs.
Cause: The authorization code failed and can require you to enter your credentials again.
To fix this error: Sign out of Power BI, and then sign in again.
You do not have the right authorization to access
to this data. To be able to gain access to the data
from this service you need to be either a global
admin or any one of the product admins
Error Code: 403
Where you will see this message: In Power BI when you're connecting to the Microsoft 365
Usage Analytics template app or when directly calling the Microsoft 365 Reporting APIs.
Cause: The authorization code failed because the user who tried connecting to the template
app doesn't have the right level of authorization to access this data.
To fix this error: Provide the credentials of a user who is either an Exchange admin, Skype for
Business admin, SharePoint admin, Global reader, or Report reader to connect to the
template app. See About admin roles for more information.
） Important
Microsoft recommends that you use roles with the fewest permissions. This helps improve
security for your organization. Global Administrator is a highly privileged role that should
be limited to emergency scenarios when you can't use an existing role.

--- Page 1868 of 2193 ---
Refresh failed
Where you will see this message: Email from Power BI or failed status in the refresh history.
Cause: Sometimes the credentials of the user who connected to the template app are reset,
and not updated in the connection settings of the template app causing the user to see refresh
failure errors.
To fix this error: In Power BI, find the dataset corresponding to the Microsoft 365 Usage
Analytics template app, select schedule refresh and provide your admin credentials.
If that doesn't work, clear the cache, and re-create the template app.

--- Page 1869 of 2193 ---
Microsoft 365 support integration with
ServiceNow configuration overview
） Important
Microsoft 365 support integration with ServiceNow is retired, and the service will be
completely shut down on May 30, 2025. If you installed the integration, take necessary steps
to remove it before May 30, 2025.
The following article applies to the Microsoft 365 support integration app with a minimum
version of 2.0.0.
For version 1.0.11 and earlier, see Microsoft 365 support integration overview v1.
Microsoft 365 support integration enables you to integrate Microsoft 365 help, support, and
service health with your ServiceNow instances. You can research Microsoft known and reported
issues, resolve incidents, complete tasks by using Microsoft recommended solutions, and, if
necessary, escalate to Microsoft human-assisted support.
For the Microsoft 365 support integration app, go to the ServiceNow Store .
７ Note
This app is not supported in regulated or restricted environments.
This app is only supported in English.
Key features
These are the key features you'll get with the Microsoft 365 support integration app in
ServiceNow:
Service Health Incidents: Information about known Microsoft service health incidents,
including user impact, scope, status, and next expected update. Using machine learning,
ServiceNow incidents are matched to Microsoft service health incidents based on the short
description field.

--- Page 1870 of 2193 ---

Recommended solutions: Descriptions of tasks and incidents are used to recommend
precise targeted solutions and relevant articles from Microsoft powered by machine
learning. You can also use Search to find other solutions, if needed.

Microsoft service request: Escalate issues to Microsoft support agents and receive status
updates for your request. With an updated workflow, you can now create a service request
by adding your preferred title, description, and contact information similar to what is found
in the Microsoft 365 admin portal.

--- Page 1871 of 2193 ---


Prerequisites
Permissions requirements
To proceed with this guide, make sure that the following permissions are available and
configured for your environments during the entire process:
Microsoft Entra admin who can create Microsoft Entra Applications
ServiceNow admin
Microsoft 365 tenant admin

--- Page 1872 of 2193 ---
Configuration highlights
To set up Microsoft 365 support integration:
Register application in Microsoft Entra ID for authentication of both outbound and inbound
API calls.
Create ServiceNow entities with Microsoft Entra Application for both outbound and
inbound data flow.
Integrate ServiceNow instance with Microsoft support through the Microsoft 365 admin
portal.
Application dependencies in your ServiceNow environments
Permissions required:
oauth_entity
oauth_entity_profile
After the Microsoft 365 support integration app has been installed, two application cross-scope
accesses are created. If they're not created successfully, create them manually.
Set up the integration

--- Page 1873 of 2193 ---
After you've downloaded the app, go to the Microsoft 365 setup wizard in your ServiceNow
environment to complete the setup process.
To open the setup wizard, type Microsoft 365 in the ServiceNow navigator and select Setup.
If you want to get started without setting up the Microsoft 365 support integration app, you
can select the option to Continue without any setup. This option continues to provide basic
recommended solutions.
To set up the application with full functionality, select Start setup, and then follow the
instructions in Integrate Microsoft 365 with ServiceNow Virtual Agent.
） Important
The Microsoft 365 support integration app occasionally prompts users for feedback about
the app. If you don't want users to be prompted for feedback, turn off this functionality in
the app settings. For more information about Microsoft feedback policies, see Learn about
Microsoft feedback for your organization. To change the feedback settings, follow the steps
in the installation process.
Last updated on 04/28/2025

--- Page 1874 of 2193 ---
Configure authentication for Microsoft 365
support integration with ServiceNow
） Important
Microsoft 365 support integration with ServiceNow is retired, and the service will be
completely shut down on May 30, 2025. If you installed the integration, take necessary steps
to remove it before May 30, 2025.
Prerequisites
These prerequisite steps are required to set up Microsoft 365 support integration.
Microsoft Entra administrator
1. [Microsoft Entra Admin] Create Microsoft Entra Application for Outbound under your
Microsoft 365 tenant.
a. Log on to the Azure Portal with your Microsoft 365 tenant credentials and go to the App
registrations page to create a new application.
b. Select Accounts in this organizational directory only ({Microsoft-365-tenant-name}
only - Single tenant) and select Register.

--- Page 1875 of 2193 ---

2. Go to Authentication and select Add a platform. Select the Web option and enter the
redirect URL: https://{your-servicenow-instance``}.service-now.com/oauth_redirect.do

3. Get the Application Client ID and create a Client secret and get that value.
4. [ServiceNow Admin] Set up the Outbound OAuth Provider in ServiceNow.
If the scope is not set to Global, go to Settings > Developer > Applications and switch to
Global.

--- Page 1876 of 2193 ---

5. Go to System OAuth > Application Registry.
6. Create a new application by using the Connect to a third party OAuth Provider option and
entering these values:
Client ID: This is the Client ID of the application created in step #1.
Client Secret: This is the Client Secret value of the application created in step #3.
Default Grant type: Client Credentials
Token URL: https://login.microsoftonline.com/{microsoft-365-tenant-
name}/oauth2/token
Redirect URL: https://{service-now-instance-name``}.service-
now.com/auth_redirect.do
[OPTIONAL] Allow the service's IP addresses to Microsoft 365
support integration
If your company is limiting internet access with your own policies, enable network access for the
service of Microsoft 365 support integration by allowing the IP addresses below for both inbound
and outbound API access:
52.149.152.32

--- Page 1877 of 2193 ---
40.83.232.243
40.83.114.39
13.76.138.31
13.79.229.170
20.105.151.142
７ Note
This terminal command lists all active IPs of the service for Microsoft 365 support
integration: nslookup`` connector.rave.microsoft.com
Configure the Microsoft 365 support
integration application
These steps are required to set up the integration between your ServiceNow instance and
Microsoft 365 support.
To open the Microsoft 365 support integration setup wizard, type Microsoft 365 in the
ServiceNow navigator and select Setup.
Steps performed by a ServiceNow administrator
1. Switch the scope to Microsoft 365 support integration.

--- Page 1878 of 2193 ---

2. Go to Microsoft 365 Support > Setup to open the integration workflow.
７ Note
If you see the error "Read operation against 'oauth_entity' from scope
'x_mioms_m365_assis' has been refused due to the table's cross-scope access policy," it
was caused by your table access policy. You must make sure All application scopes >
Can read is checked for the table oauth_entity.

3. Select Agree to continue.

--- Page 1879 of 2193 ---

4. Configure the environment and start the setup.
If this installation is on a test environment, select the option This is a test environment. You
can disable this option after the setup and your tests are completed later.

5. Enter your Microsoft 365 tenant domain.

6. Configure authentication settings.
a. Register the Microsoft Entra app.

--- Page 1880 of 2193 ---
b. After completing the instructions in the prerequisites section, select Done. Otherwise,
follow the instructions in the wizard to create the necessary application registration in
Microsoft Entra ID.

c. Register the ServiceNow OAuth app.
d. After completing the instructions in the prerequisites section, select the newly created
OAuth application registration and select Next. Otherwise, follow the instructions to
create the entity in ServiceNow, and then select the new application registration.

Steps performed by a Microsoft 365 administrator in the
Microsoft 365 admin portal

--- Page 1881 of 2193 ---
７ Note
Do not select Test setup before the Microsoft 365 administrator finishes performing the next
steps.
Verify that the following information is correct.

７ Note
The following steps configure the Microsoft 365 support integration for ServiceNow
application version 2.0.0 and later. If you've installed version 1.0.11 or earlier, you can't
configure a new installation of the application.
1. Configure the support integration settings:

--- Page 1882 of 2193 ---
Select the Basic information tab > Internal support tool > ServiceNow, and enter the
Outbound App ID value in the Application ID to issue Auth Token field. This Outbound
App ID is on Step 6 - Complete the Integration, which was created in Prerequisite step #1.

On the Repositories tab, select New repository and update it with the following
settings:
If you have version 1.0.11 or earlier installed, you must upgrade the application to
version 2.0.0 or later.

--- Page 1883 of 2193 ---

Repository: The Repository ID value from Step 6 - Complete the Integration, which
was created in Prerequisite step #1. Endpoint: The Endpoint value from Step 6 -
Complete the Integration, which was created in Prerequisite step #1.

--- Page 1884 of 2193 ---

2. Select Save.
Steps performed in ServiceNow by a ServiceNow administrator.
A ServiceNow administrator tests the connection and completes the setup.
To complete the setup, go back to your ServiceNow instance and select Test setup.
Test setup
The Microsoft 365 support integration app executes tests to make sure the integration is working.
If there's a problem with the configuration, an error message explains what needs to be fixed.
Otherwise, the application is ready.

--- Page 1885 of 2193 ---

Enable Microsoft support integration for an
existing user
Microsoft 365 support integration is enabled for the user with one of these roles:
x_mioms_m365_assis.insights_user-This role is required to view the Recommended
Solutions & Articles and Microsoft Service Health features in the ServiceNow incident view.
x_mioms_m365_assis.administrator-This role is required to escalate ServiceNow incidents
to Microsoft support using a linked Microsoft 365 admin account. Follow the next section to
link your admin account in the app's settings and finalize the steps to create Microsoft
support cases.
In order for every member of your organization to be able to escalate ServiceNow incidents as
support cases to Microsoft, each member must have the x_mioms_m365_assis.administrator role
applied. The x_mioms_m365_assis.insights_user role is required to gain access to the
Recommended Solutions & Articles and Microsoft Service Health information in the ServiceNow
incident view; it is not required to create Microsoft support cases.
Link Microsoft 365 Admin account
Continue with these instructions if you are looking to escalate your ServiceNow incidents to
Microsoft support from your ServiceNow instance via the app.
If any users are provisioned with the role x_mioms_m365_assis.administrator and are using
different Microsoft 365 accounts to manage a Microsoft 365 support case, they must set up their
Microsoft 365 admin email account by navigating to Microsoft 365 support > Link Account.
Each member is not required to link their Microsoft 365 tenant email account. You are only
required to enter a single valid Microsoft 365 admin email account that has ticket creation
permissions. The app will only maintain a single admin account for this purpose.

--- Page 1886 of 2193 ---

Last updated on 04/28/2025

--- Page 1887 of 2193 ---
Testing the ServiceNow configuration
） Important
Microsoft 365 support integration with ServiceNow is retired, and the service will be
completely shut down on May 30, 2025. If you installed the integration, take necessary steps
to remove it before May 30, 2025.
If your application requires successful communication with external systems, outline how to test
the connection to ensure a successful configuration.
Follow these steps to test the configuration of Microsoft 365 support integration:
1. Log into your ServiceNow portal as admin.
2. Open any incident.
3. Focus on the Microsoft 365 Support tab and select Microsoft 365 Insights to determine if
the recommended solutions were returned successfully.
Last updated on 04/29/2025

--- Page 1888 of 2193 ---
Automatic ServiceNow Incident Creation
） Important
Microsoft 365 support integration with ServiceNow is retired, and the service will be
completely shut down on May 30, 2025. If you installed the integration, take necessary steps
to remove it before May 30, 2025.
The Microsoft 365 support integration app enables you to create ServiceNow incidents when a
Microsoft Service Health Incident is published for your tenant. To use this feature, you must use
version 2.1.0 or later. This feature helps IT teams by automatically creating incidents in
ServiceNow when Microsoft publishes new service health incidents.
７ Note
This article was partially generated using Azure OpenAI Service. Before publishing, an author
reviewed and revised the content as needed. See Our principles for using AI-generated
content in Microsoft Learn .
When a Microsoft Service Health Incident is updated, the app posts the same updates to the
ServiceNow incident. You can choose to have the app automatically close the ServiceNow
incident when the Microsoft service health incident is resolved, or you can close it manually.
The properties on the Microsoft service health incident map to properties on the ServiceNow
incident.
ﾉ Expand table

--- Page 1889 of 2193 ---
Microsoft Service Health ServiceNow Incident
Title Short Description
Issue type Impact
Status Urgency
All other fields Description
Configuration
To enable automatic creation of ServiceNow incidents, navigate to Microsoft 365 Support >
Service Health in your ServiceNow instance.
Select Enable the Microsoft 365 support integration app to create ServiceNow incidents for
each Microsoft 365 service health incident.
To automatically close ServiceNow incidents, select Automatically resolve ServiceNow incident
when the Microsoft service health is resolved.
If the ServiceNow incident is manually closed and this setting is enabled, the app stops posting
updates to that incident.
If the ServiceNow incident is automatically resolved, the app stops posting updates to that
incident. The ServiceNow incident is resolved with the following settings:

--- Page 1890 of 2193 ---
Resolution code: Closed/Resolved by Caller
Resolution note: The Microsoft service health incident was resolved on <date_time>.
Please refer to the incident details in the Microsoft 365 Support tab for more
information.
To automatically create ServiceNow incidents, configure the Assignment group and Category for
the app. The Assigned to and Subcategory aren't required. Setting those values improves
routing and reporting.
Last updated on 04/29/2025

--- Page 1891 of 2193 ---
Troubleshooting Microsoft 365 support
integration with ServiceNow
） Important
Microsoft 365 support integration with ServiceNow is retired, and the service will be
completely shut down on May 30, 2025. If you installed the integration, take necessary steps
to remove it before May 30, 2025.
ﾉ Expand table
# Problem Diagnostics action
1 Can't see Microsoft 365 support tab Verify the current view and System Logs > All
with filter x_mioms_m365_assit
2 Select Microsoft recommended solutions but get Check the error message on top of the form
error "Please contact your ServiceNow admin and ask and System Logs > All with filter
them to complete the setup steps for the app." x_mioms_m365_assit
3 Select Microsoft recommended solutions but get Check the error message on top of the form
error "Please contact your ServiceNow admin and ask and System Logs > All with filter
them to complete the final set up step for the app." x_mioms_m365_assit
4 Type the problem in search box and select Microsoft Check the error message on top of the form
recommended solutions but get error "Please contact and System Logs > All with filter
your ServiceNow admin and ask them to complete the x_mioms_m365_assit
setup steps for the app."
5 Type problem in search box and select Microsoft Check the error message on top of the form
recommended solutions but get error "Please contact and System Logs > All with filter
your ServiceNow admin and ask them to complete the x_mioms_m365_assit
final set up step for the app."
6 Select Contact Microsoft support, but get the error Check the error message on top of the form
"Please contact your ServiceNow admin and ask them and System Logs > All with filter
to complete the setup steps for the app." x_mioms_m365_assit
7 Select Contact Microsoft support, but get the error Check the error message on top of the form
"Please contact your ServiceNow admin and ask them and System Logs > All with filter
to complete the final set up step for the app." x_mioms_m365_assit
8 Select Contact Microsoft support but get the error " Check the error message on top of the form
{EmailAddress} is not a valid Microsoft 365 admin and System Logs > All with filter

--- Page 1892 of 2193 ---
# Problem Diagnostics action
account. You need Microsoft 365 admin privileges to x_mioms_m365_assit
open a service request. In the app, link the admin
account."
9 Select Microsoft recommended solutions but nothing Check System Logs - Outbound HTTP logs
shows up with filter login.microsoftonline.com and
connector.rave.microsoft.com
10 Select Microsoft recommended solutions but get Check the error message on top of the form
error "Please contact app support." and System Logs > All with filter
x_mioms_m365_assit
11 Type problem in search box and select Microsoft Check System Logs - Outbound HTTP logs
recommended solutions but nothing shows up with filter login.microsoftonline.com and
connector.rave.microsoft.com
12 Type problem in search box and select Microsoft Check the error message on top of the form
recommended solutions but get error "Please contact and System Logs > All with filter
app support." x_mioms_m365_assit
13 User selects Contact Microsoft support, but nothing Check System Logs - Outbound HTTP logs
happens with filter login.microsoftonline.com and
connector.rave.microsoft.com
14 Can't see Microsoft recommended solution after Check System Logs > All with filter
reopening the incident x_mioms_m365_assit
15 Can't see Microsoft cases when reopening the Check System Logs > All with filter
incident that was transferred to Microsoft support x_mioms_m365_assit
16 Can't save ticket details, get error "Unable to save Check the error message on top of form
ticket details. Please contact App support."
Last updated on 04/29/2025

--- Page 1893 of 2193 ---
Integrate Microsoft 365 with ServiceNow
Virtual Agent
） Important
Microsoft 365 support integration with ServiceNow is retired, and the service will be
completely shut down on May 30, 2025. If you installed the integration, take necessary steps
to remove it before May 30, 2025.
When you configure the Microsoft 365 support integration app to work with ServiceNow Virtual
Agent, you access the self-help created by Microsoft 365 product teams through two different
user experiences:
Microsoft 365 step-by-step and walk-through solutions.

--- Page 1894 of 2193 ---


--- Page 1895 of 2193 ---

Top web search results from Microsoft 365 knowledge base articles.

--- Page 1896 of 2193 ---

Before you begin

--- Page 1897 of 2193 ---
Enable Virtual Agent in ServiceNow. For details, see Activate Virtual Agent .
Install and complete the setup of the Microsoft 365 support integration app from the
ServiceNow Store.
Minimum version of ServiceNow: Rome.
Role required: ServiceNow admin or virtual_agent_admin.
Configure Microsoft 365 support integration to work
with ServiceNow Virtual Agent
Standalone fallback topic
Set Microsoft 365 Support as your fallback topic. For details, see Configure a Virtual Agent chat
experience .

Topic blocks

--- Page 1898 of 2193 ---
If you don't have any topic created, you can use the standalone fallback topic as above or create
your own virtual agent topic .
Follow these steps to add the Microsoft 365 Support topic block:
1. Under Utilities, select Topic Block, and add it to your flow.

2. Under Topic Block Properties, choose Microsoft 365 Support Topic Block.

3. A Microsoft 365 Support Topic Block accesses input text in this order:
a. Checks for input variable. If the input variable is not empty, fetches the results for the
input variable.

--- Page 1899 of 2193 ---

b. If the input variable is empty, checks for text entered by the user in the chat window and
fetches results for the text.

--- Page 1900 of 2193 ---

c. If the user didn't enter text, asks the user to enter text to fetch results.

--- Page 1901 of 2193 ---

4. Microsoft 365 Support Topic Block provides an output variable, which is the user's feedback
for the results.

--- Page 1902 of 2193 ---
a. Output variable name: m365_success b. Possible output variable values: YES/NO

Last updated on 04/29/2025

--- Page 1903 of 2193 ---
Microsoft business subscriptions and
billing documentation
Learn how to buy and manage business subscriptions, perform license management tasks, and
manage billing and payments for your Microsoft business accounts.
Manage bills and payments
ｃ HOW-TO GUIDE
View your invoice
Manage payment methods
Understand your invoice (MCA)
Understand your invoice (MOSA)
ｅ OVERVIEW
Introducing the new Microsoft billing experience
Pay your invoice with a credit card or billing profile
Pay your invoice with a wire transfer
ｑ VIDEO
Understand your bill or invoice
Update your payment method
Manage licenses
ｃ HOW-TO GUIDE
Buy or remove licenses
Assign or unassign licenses for users
Assign or unassign licenses for groups
Download perpetual software and product license keys
ｅ OVERVIEW

--- Page 1904 of 2193 ---
Understand subscriptions and licenses
ｑ VIDEO
Buy new licenses
Remove existing licenses
Manage subscriptions
ｃ HOW-TO GUIDE
Try or buy Microsoft 365
Buy a domain name
Turn recurring billing on or off
Cancel your subscription
Close your account
ｑ VIDEO
Sign up for Microsoft 365 for business
Move users to a different subscription
Manage pay-as-you-go services
ｃ HOW-TO GUIDE
Set up pay-as-you-go billing in Settings node
Set up pay-as-you-go billing in Billing node
Set up a pay-as-you-go budget
Start using pay-as-you-go services
ｅ OVERVIEW
What are pay-as-you-go services?
Available pay-as-you-go services

--- Page 1905 of 2193 ---
Pay-as-you-go pricing
ｈ WHAT'S NEW
Available new pay-as-you-go services
Manage volume licensing
ｃ HOW-TO GUIDE
Sign in to the Microsoft 365 admin center (volume licensing)
Download volume licensing products
Find and use product keys for volume licensing
Manage License Reservations for volume licensing
Contact volume licensing support

--- Page 1906 of 2193 ---
Microsoft 365 for business security
overview
Applies to: ✅ Microsoft 365 Business Basic, ✅ Microsoft 365 Business Standard, ✅ Microsoft 365 Business
Premium, ✅ Microsoft 365 for Campaigns
Microsoft 365 for business is the collective name of Microsoft 365 subscriptions that cater to
small to medium sized businesses up to 300 users. For more information, see What is Microsoft
365 for business?.
Microsoft 365 for business includes the following subscriptions:
Microsoft 365 Business Basic: For setup instructions, see Set up Microsoft 365 Business
Basic.
Microsoft 365 Business Standard: For setup instructions, see Set up Microsoft 365
Business Standard with a new or existing domain.
Microsoft 365 Business Premium: For setup instructions, see Sign in and set up Microsoft
365 Business Premium.
 Tip
Microsoft 365 for Campaigns is a low priced version of Business Premium for eligible
political campaigns or political parties in eligible countries. The security features in
Business Premium and Microsoft 365 for Campaigns are identical, unless otherwise
identified. For setup instructions, see Microsoft 365 for Campaigns.
This article and the related content is intended for "administrators" or "admins" who are
responsible for the security configuration and settings that affect the entire organization.
Whether you have a background in IT or you're thrust into the role by default, you're an admin
(congratulations).
Areas of security in Microsoft 365 for business
After you finish setting up your Microsoft 365 for business organization, you need to review
and configure the security settings. You can organize the security settings in Microsoft 365 for
business into the following categories:
Account security.
Email and collaboration security.

--- Page 1907 of 2193 ---
Device security.
These security categories are described in the following sections and are summarized in the
following table:
ﾉ Expand table
Business Business Business
Basic Standard Premium
Account security
Microsoft Entra ID Free Free Plan 1
Microsoft Defender Suite for Business Purchased separately
Premium (includes Microsoft Entra ID P2)
Email and collaboration security
Built-in security features for all cloud ✔ ✔ ✔
mailboxes
Microsoft Defender for Office 365 Plan 1
Microsoft Defender Suite for Business Purchased separately
Premium (includes Defender for Office 365
Plan 2)
Device security
Basic Mobility and Security ✔ ✔ ✔
Microsoft Intune Plan 1
Microsoft Defender for Business ✔
Microsoft Defender Suite for Business Purchased separately
Premium (includes Defender for Endpoint
Plan 2)
Account security
All subscriptions in Microsoft 365 for business include Microsoft Entra ID Free, which includes
the feature named security defaults. Because security defaults is on by default, multifactor
authentication (MFA) is enabled by default in Microsoft 365 for business organizations.
Business Premium also includes Microsoft Entra ID P1, which includes the feature named
Conditional Access. Conditional Access uses granular policies based on Zero Trust architecture

--- Page 1908 of 2193 ---
to give users access to resources. If your organization requires increased or complex security
settings, you can use Conditional Access policies instead of security defaults.
For information about security defaults and conditional access, see Multifactor authentication
in Microsoft 365 for business.
For other considerations for administrator or admin accounts, see Admin account security in
Microsoft 365 for business
Email and collaboration security
All subscriptions in Microsoft 365 for business include the built-in security features for all cloud
mailboxes against malware, spam, and phishing (spoofing) in email. For more information, see
Overview of the built-in security features for all cloud mailboxes.
The built-in security features for all cloud mailboxes include the following types of threat
policies that are on by default:
Anti-malware policies
Anti-spam policies
Spoofing protection in anti-phishing policies
Microsoft 365 Business Premium also includes Microsoft Defender for Office 365 Plan 1, which
adds the following types of protection:
Impersonation protection and phishing email thresholds in anti-phishing policies
Safe Attachments policies
Safe Attachments for SharePoint, OneDrive, and Microsoft Teams
Safe Links policies
The default settings for these email and collaboration protection features provide a good level
of protection. But for even better protection, we recommend configuring more settings and
features for the best available protection (for example, turn on and assign the Standard and/or
Strict preset security policies).
For more information, see Email and collaboration security in Microsoft 365 for business.
 Tip
For a deeper dive into default policies vs. custom policies vs. preset security policies, see
Configure threat policies in Defender for Office 365.
The security settings in default policies, the Standard preset security policy, and the Strict
preset security policy are listed in the tables in Recommended email and collaboration

--- Page 1909 of 2193 ---
threat policy settings for cloud organizations.
Device security
All subscriptions in Microsoft 365 for business include Basic Mobility and Security, which is a
limited subset of Microsoft Intune. Basic Mobility and Security is a mobile device management
(MDM) solution that helps you secure access to company data on enrolled devices in
supported apps.
For more information, see Overview of Basic Mobility and Security for Microsoft 365.
Business Premium includes the following extra features for device security:
Microsoft Intune Plan 1: Improves upon Basic Mobility and Security with more features:
Support for mobile device management (MDM) and mobile application management
(MAM) strategies. In MDM, the company manages the whole device. In MAM, the
company manages company data on the device (which is an option for personal
devices, also known as bring your own device or BYOD).
Support for more device types (including macOS).
and more.
For more information, see the following articles:
Microsoft Intune overview
Device and application management in Microsoft 365 Business Premium
Device groups and Microsoft Intune categories in Microsoft 365 Business Premium
Device and application protection in Microsoft 365 Business Premium.
Microsoft Defender for Business: Endpoint security for devices designed especially for
small to medium sized businesses. Defender for Business is equivalent to Microsoft
Defender for Endpoint Plan 1 with some features from Defender for Endpoint Plan 2.
For more information, see the following articles:
Device groups and Microsoft Intune categories in Microsoft 365 Business Premium
Device and application protection in Microsoft 365 Business Premium.
Ability to add Microsoft Defender Suite for Business Premium: If you choose to buy this
extra subscription, you get the following upgraded features:
Microsoft Entra ID P2
Microsoft Defender for Identity
Microsoft Defender for Endpoint Plan 2
Microsoft Defender for Office 365 Plan 2
Microsoft Defender for Cloud Apps

--- Page 1910 of 2193 ---
For more information, see Add Microsoft Defender Suite for Business Premium to your
Microsoft 365 Business Premium subscription.
See also
Microsoft 365 Business Premium frequently asked questions
Set up information protection capabilities in Microsoft 365 Business Premium
Last updated on 12/19/2025

--- Page 1911 of 2193 ---
What's new in security in Microsoft 365 for
business
09/24/2025
Applies to: ✅ Microsoft 365 Business Basic, ✅ Microsoft 365 Business Standard, ✅ Microsoft 365 Business
Premium, ✅ Microsoft 365 for Campaigns
This article lists new security features in the latest releases of Microsoft 365 for business, which
includes Microsoft 365 Business Basic, Microsoft 365 Business Standard, and Microsoft 365
Business Premium. Features that are currently in preview are denoted with (preview).
For more information about Microsoft 365 for business, see What is Microsoft 365 for business.
 Tip
Microsoft 365 Business Premium includes Microsoft Defender for Business. For
information about what's new in Microsoft Defender for Business, see What's new in
Microsoft Defender for Business.
September 2025
You can now add the Microsoft Defender Suite for Business Premium to your
subscription. This add-on replaces the former Microsoft 365 E5 Security add-on.
March 2025
You can now add the Microsoft Defender Suite (formerly known as Microsoft 365 E5
Security) to your Microsoft 365 Business Premium subscription. This add-on up levels your
security capabilities with more protection for your organization's identities, devices, email,
files, and apps. For more information, see the following resources:
Tech Community Blog: Microsoft 365 E5 Security is now available as an add-on to
Microsoft 365 Business Premium
Add Microsoft 365 E5 Security to your Microsoft 365 Business Premium subscription
July 2024
(GA) Learning hub resources moved from the Microsoft Defender portal to
learn.microsoft.com . Access Microsoft Defender XDR Ninja training, learning paths,

--- Page 1912 of 2193 ---
training modules and more. Browse the list of learning paths, and filter by product, role,
level, and subject.
March 2024
(Preview) Turn preview options on in the main Microsoft 365 Defender settings
together with other Microsoft Defender XDR preview features. Customers who aren't
using preview features yet continue to see the legacy settings under Settings >
Endpoints > Advanced features > Preview features. For more information, see Microsoft
Defender XDR preview features.
October 2023
October is Cybersecurity Awareness Month. See how we're making it easier for small and
medium-sized businesses to stay secure .
Special pricing for new Microsoft 365 Business Premium customers. During October,
we're offering special pricing for new customers. For all the details, see Security for your
small or medium-sized business .
July 2023
 Tip
Read all about the exciting, new capabilities releasing in July 2023 in the Tech
Community blog: New SMB security innovations from Microsoft Inspire 2023 .
New training resources for Microsoft partners. A Security Managed services kit and a
three-part digital training series are now available to give step-by-step guidance for
partners to build services based on critical CIS cybersecurity controls. For more
information, see IT partner resources to help build security services in the Tech
Community blog: New SMB security innovations from Microsoft Inspire 2023 .
July 2022
Microsoft Defender for Business servers (preview) is available to customers who have at
least one paid license of Microsoft 365 for business or Defender for Business. See Tech
Community blog: Server protection for small business is now in preview within Microsoft
Defender for Business .

--- Page 1913 of 2193 ---
March 2022
Microsoft 365 Business Premium now includes Defender for Business. To learn more,
see Tech Community blog: New security solutions to help secure small and medium
businesses .
See also
What's new in Microsoft 365 Lighthouse

--- Page 1914 of 2193 ---
Microsoft 365 Business Premium security -
frequently asked questions
Applies to: ✅ Microsoft 365 Business Premium, ✅ Microsoft 365 for Campaigns
 Tip
For frequently asked questions not related to security in Microsoft 365 Business Premium,
see Microsoft 365 Business Premium frequently asked questions.
General
How do I add the Microsoft Defender Suite to
Microsoft 365 Business Premium?
Work with your Microsoft partner or visit Microsoft Security for Business .
Does Microsoft 365 Business Premium with the
Microsoft Defender Suite allow mixed licensing for
endpoint security solutions?
Microsoft Defender for Business doesn't support mixed licensing, so a tenant with Defender for
Business (which is included in Microsoft 365 Business Premium) along with Defender for
Endpoint Plan 2 (which is included in Microsoft Defender Suite for Business Premium) defaults
to the Defender for Business experience.
80 users are licensed for Business Premium (which includes Defender for Business).
To those 80 users, you add 30 licenses of Microsoft Defender Suite (which includes
Defender for Endpoint Plan 2).
The result is: all 80 users get the Defender for Business experience. To switch to the Defender
for Endpoint Plan 2 experience, you need to do the following steps:
1. License all users for Defender for Endpoint Plan 2 using one of the following methods:
License all users with the standalone version of Defender for Endpoint Plan 2.
License all users with the Microsoft Defender Suite.
2. Contact Microsoft Support to request the switch for your organization.

--- Page 1915 of 2193 ---
For more information, see Change your endpoint security subscription.
Is everyone in my organization required to have a
Microsoft 365 Business Premium subscription?
No. However, the security and management benefits of Microsoft 365 Business Premium are
available only to users with devices managed with a Business Premium subscription.
All businesses should seek to standardize their IT environment to help reduce maintenance and
security costs over time. However, we recognize that small and medium-sized businesses often
update their software when they upgrade their hardware over an extended time period.
Although you can deploy Microsoft 365 Business Premium to part of your organization, we
recommend deploying Microsoft 365 Business Premium to all users for the best protection of
sensitive business data and consistent collaboration experiences.
How does Microsoft 365 Business Premium help
support personal devices (also known as bring your
own device or BYOD)?
Many small to medium-sized businesses don't provide company-owned mobile devices to
users, yet users need to access company data when they're not in the office. Although using
personal devices to access company data is common these days (in particular, email and
calendar data), the practice increases the risk that business information could end up in the
wrong hands.
Microsoft 365 Business Premium contains simple but powerful features that allow users to
security access company data on their personal devices while preventing those devices from
accessing, retaining, and/or sharing business information.
For more information, see the following articles:
Device and application management in Microsoft 365 Business Premium
Device and application protection in Microsoft 365 Business Premium
How does Microsoft 365 Business Premium help
protect PCs in my organization from malicious
attacks?

--- Page 1916 of 2193 ---
PCs managed with Microsoft 365 Business Premium are protected by Microsoft Defender for
Business, an endpoint security solution that's designed especially for small and medium-sized
business (up to 300 users). With Defender for Business, the devices in your organization are
better protected from ransomware, malware, phishing, and other threats.
What if my Microsoft 365 Business Premium
organization has some Microsoft Defender for
Business servers licenses, and I want to switch all
users to Microsoft Defender Suite?
You need to change your server plan to Microsoft Defender for Endpoint for servers or
Microsoft Defender for Servers.
Is Microsoft Defender Suite available as an add-on
for Microsoft 365 Business Premium for Nonprofits?
Yes.
Microsoft Defender Suite is available as an add-on for the commercial and non-profit offerings
of Microsoft 365 Business Premium.
Deployment
Does Microsoft 365 Business Premium include the
full capabilities of Microsoft Intune?
Yes.
Microsoft 365 Business Premium subscribers are licensed to use full Intune capabilities for iOS,
Android, Mac, and other cross-platform device management.
Features that aren't available in the simplified management experience in the Microsoft
Defender portal are available in the Microsoft Intune portal. For example:
Non-Microsoft app management
Configuration of Wi-Fi profiles
VPN certificates

--- Page 1917 of 2193 ---
Does Microsoft Entra ID P1 come with Microsoft 365
Business Premium?
Yes.
Microsoft Entra ID P1 is included with Microsoft 365 Business Premium.
Does Microsoft 365 Business Premium allow
customers to manage Apple devices?
Yes.
Microsoft 365 Business Premium includes Intune and Defender for Business to help you
securely manage iOS/iPadOS, and macOS devices.
What is Windows Autopilot?
Windows Autopilot uses a supported version of Windows Semi-Annual Enterprise Channel to
set up PCs with business critical apps, policies, and features (for example, BitLocker) before you
give the PCs to users. Autopilot can also reset, repurpose, and recover Windows devices. For
more information, see Overview of Windows Autopilot.
Compatibility
Can Microsoft 365 Business Premium customers use
Microsoft Defender for Endpoint?
Yes.
Microsoft 365 Business Premium includes Microsoft Defender for Business, which is built on the
capabilities of Defender for Endpoint to provide advanced security protection for devices.
However, you can add Defender for Endpoint Plan 1 or Plan 2 to your Microsoft 365 Business
Premium subscription. For more information, see Microsoft 365 guidance for security &
compliance.

--- Page 1918 of 2193 ---
Microsoft 365 for business security
best practices
Applies to: ✅ Microsoft 365 Business Basic, ✅ Microsoft 365 Business Standard, ✅ Microsoft 365 Business
Premium, ✅ Microsoft 365 for Campaigns
 Tip
This article is for small and medium sized businesses with up to 300 users.
If you're looking for information for enterprise organizations, see Deploy ransomware
protection for your Microsoft 365 organization.
If you're a Microsoft partner, see Resources for Microsoft partners working with small and
medium-sized businesses.
Microsoft 365 for business, which includes Microsoft 365 Business Basic, Microsoft 365 Business
Standard, and Microsoft 365 Business Premium, includes anti-phishing, anti-spam, and anti-
malware protection for email. Microsoft 365 Business Premium includes even more security
capabilities, such as advanced cybersecurity protection for:
Devices (computers, tablets, and phones; also known as endpoints)
Email & collaboration content (for example, Office documents)
Data (encryption, sensitivity labels, and Data Loss Prevention or DLP)
This article describes the top 10 ways to secure your business data with Microsoft 365 for
business. For more information about what each plan includes, see Microsoft 365 for
Businesses .
Top 10 ways to secure your business data

--- Page 1919 of 2193 ---

The following table summarizes how to secure your data using Microsoft 365 for business.
ﾉ Expand table
Best practices and capabilities Business Business Business
Basic Standard Premium
1. Use multi-factor authentication (MFA), also known as two-step
verification:
Security defaults is on by default and is suitable for most ✔ ✔ ✔
organizations.
Use Conditional Access for more stringent requirements. ✔
2. Protect admin accounts. See Admin account security in Microsoft 365 ✔ ✔ ✔
for business.
3. Use preset security policies. See Preset security policies in cloud
organizations and Determine your threat policy strategy.
Built-in security features for all cloud mailboxes. Includes: Anti-spam, ✔ ✔ ✔
anti-malware, and anti-phishing (spoof) protection.
Microsoft Defender for Office 365 Plan 1 protection. Includes: Extra ✔
anti-phishing protection features (impersonation protection and anti-
phishing thresholds), Safe Links (email, Office apps, and Microsoft
Teams), and Safe Attachments (email and files in SharePoint, OneDrive,
and Microsoft Teams)
4. Protect all devices that access company data, including personal and
company devices:

--- Page 1920 of 2193 ---
Best practices and capabilities Business Business Business
Basic Standard Premium
Basic Mobility and Security (provides mobile device management or ✔ ✔ ✔
MDM)
Microsoft Intune Plan 1 (provides MDM and mobile app management ✔
or MAM)
Device protection policies in Microsoft Defender for Business and ✔
Microsoft Intune
5. Use email securely
Protect yourself against phishing and other attacks. ✔ ✔ ✔
Use Microsoft Purview Message Encryption automatically with ✔
Exchange mail flow rules (also known as transport rules) or manually .
Custom branding is also available.
Use Microsoft Purview Data Loss Prevention to safeguard company ✔
data.
Use Sensitivity labels to mark email messages as sensitive, ✔
confidential, etc.
6. Work together in Microsoft Teams
Use Microsoft Teams for communication, collaboration, and sharing ✔ ✔ ✔
Get time of click protection for URLs and files in Teams messages with ✔
Safe Links for Microsoft Teams and Safe Attachments for SharePoint,
OneDrive, and Microsoft Teams.
Allow/block URLs and files inside Teams using the Tenant Allow/Block ✔
List.
Use sensitivity labels for meetings to protect calendar items, Teams ✔
meetings, and chat.
Use Microsoft Purview Data Loss Prevention in Microsoft Teams to ✔
safeguard company data.
7. Set file sharing settings
Safe Links and Safe Attachments for SharePoint and OneDrive ✔
Use Sensitivity labels to mark items as sensitive, confidential, etc. ✔
Use Microsoft Purview Data Loss Prevention to safeguard company ✔
data.

--- Page 1921 of 2193 ---
Best practices and capabilities Business Business Business
Basic Standard Premium
8. Use Microsoft 365 Apps
Use Outlook and web/mobile versions of Microsoft 365 Apps for all ✔ ✔ ✔
users
Install Microsoft 365 Apps on user devices. ✔ ✔
Use the User quick setup guide to help users get set up and ✔ ✔ ✔
running.
9. Manage calendar sharing
Outlook for email and calendars. ✔ ✔ ✔
Microsoft Purview Data Loss Prevention to safeguard company data. ✔
10. Maintain your environment: See Maintain your environment. ✔ ✔ ✔
For more information about what each plan includes, see Microsoft 365 for Businesses .
Last updated on 05/28/2026

--- Page 1922 of 2193 ---
Set up information protection in Microsoft
365 Business Premium
Applies to: ✅ Microsoft 365 Business Premium, ✅ Microsoft 365 for Campaigns
Microsoft 365 Business Premium includes information protection capabilities for compliance
and privacy:
Sensitivity labels for email and files and meetings in Microsoft Teams
Microsoft Purview Data Loss Prevention (DLP).
Microsoft Purview Message Encryption

You can use these capabilities to help protect your company's data, and keep your and your
customers' sensitive information more secure.
Use this article to get started with your information protection capabilities.
What do you need to know before you begin?
You need to be assigned permissions before you can do the procedures in this article. You
have the following options:
Microsoft Entra permissions: Membership in the Global Administrator* or Compliance
Administrator roles.

--- Page 1923 of 2193 ---
） Important
* Microsoft recommends that you use roles with the fewest permissions. Using
lower permissioned accounts helps improve security for your organization. Global
Administrator is a highly privileged role that should be limited to emergency
scenarios when you can't use an existing role.
Use Compliance Manager

Business Premium includes Microsoft Purview Compliance Manager, which can help you get
started setting up your compliance features. Features include data loss prevention (DLP), data
lifecycle management, and insider risk management. Compliance Manager saves time by
highlighting recommendations, a compliance score, and ways to improve your score.
Here's how to get started:
1. In the Microsoft Purview portal at https://purview.microsoft.com , go to Solutions >
Compliance Manager. Or, to go directly to the Overview page of Compliance Manager,
use https://purview.microsoft.com/compliancemanager/overviewpage .
2. On the Overview page of Compliance Manager, review the information. Select an entry
or link to view more information or to take action.
Selecting the Remaining actions value for a solution entry in the Solutions that affect
your score section opens the Improvement actions page that's filtered by the solution
you selected.

--- Page 1924 of 2193 ---

For example, in the Solutions that affect your score section, selecting the value in the
Remaining actions column for the Data loss prevention solution opens the Improvement
actions page filtered by Solutions: Data loss prevention.

3. On the Improvement actions page, selecting an Improvement action entry takes you to a
detailed actions page.
For example, selecting Create customized DLP policies for personally identifiable
information (PII) opens the detailed actions page with more information about the policy
to configure.

--- Page 1925 of 2193 ---

Follow the information on the page to set up your DLP policy.
For more information about Compliance Manager, see Microsoft Purview Compliance
Manager.
Use sensitivity labels
Sensitivity labels are available in Microsoft 365 Apps (such as Outlook, Word, Excel, and
PowerPoint). For example:
Normal
Personal
Private
Confidential
You can also create custom labels.
Use the following articles to get started with sensitivity labels:
1. Learn about sensitivity labels.
2. Get started with sensitivity labels.
3. Create and configure sensitivity labels and their policies.
4. Show people in your company how to use sensitivity labels
Use DLP policies
Microsoft Purview Data Loss Prevention helps protect sensitive information by preventing
intentionally or unintentionally sharing it with others who shouldn't have it. With a DLP policy,
you can identify, monitor, and automatically protect sensitive items across Microsoft 365 Apps
(such as Word, Excel, and PowerPoint), and in email.
Use the following articles to get started with DLP:
1. Learn about data loss prevention.

--- Page 1926 of 2193 ---
2. Create and Deploy DLP policies.
Use email encryption
Use Microsoft Purview Message Encryption to protect the information in email messages. The
contents of an encrypted email message are converted from readable plain text into scrambled
cypher text. Only recipients with the private key that corresponds to the public key used to
encrypt the message can decipher the message for reading. Any recipient without the
corresponding private key sees scrambled cypher text.
Admins can define rules to automatically encrypt messages that meet certain criteria. For
instance, your admin can create a rule that encrypts all messages sent outside your
organization or all messages that mention specific words or phrases. Any encryption rules are
applied automatically.
Use the following articles to get started with encryption:
1. Set up Message Encryption, including optional customized branding.
2. Automatic: Define mail flow rules to encrypt email messages.
3. Manual: Send Microsoft Purview encrypted email in Outlook .
Last updated on 09/09/2025

--- Page 1927 of 2193 ---
Why should I choose Microsoft 365
Business Premium?
Applies to: ✅ Microsoft 365 Business Premium, ✅ Microsoft 365 for Campaigns
Microsoft 365 Business Premium is a complete productivity and security solution for small and
medium-sized businesses. It provides comprehensive cloud productivity and security and is
designed especially for small and medium-sized businesses (up to 300 users). With Microsoft
365 Business Premium, you can:
Enable users to be connected and productive, whether they're working on site or
remotely, with best-in-class collaboration tools like Microsoft Teams.
Provide users with secure access to their business data and apps, and help ensure that
only authorized personnel can access confidential work data.
Defend against sophisticated cyberthreats and safeguard your business data with
advanced protection against phishing, ransomware, and data loss.
Manage and secure devices (Windows, Mac, iOS, and Android) that connect to your data,
and help keep those devices up to date.
Microsoft 365 Business Premium offers you one comprehensive solution for productivity and
security. You have everything you need in one place for administration, billing, and 24x7
support, while reducing cost and complexity for your business.
For instructions to secure your business, see Microsoft 365 for business security best practices.
Video: Top five benefits of Microsoft 365 Business
Premium
Watch the following video to see how Microsoft 365 Business Premium helps your business be
more productive and secure:
https://learn-video.azurefd.net/vod/player?id=6f3cae8f-688c-46f3-9987-
cfcf3168bf97&locale=en-us&embedUrl=%2Fmicrosoft-365%2Fadmin%2Fsecurity-and-
compliance%2Fm365bp-security-benefits
 Tip
For detailed information about what's included in Microsoft 365 Business Premium, see
the Microsoft 365 User Subscription Suites for Small and Medium-sized Businesses .

--- Page 1928 of 2193 ---
Configure security protection in Microsoft 365
Business Premium
After you complete the basic setup process for Microsoft 365 Business Premium (or Microsoft
365 for Campaigns), your next step is to set up and configure your security protection.
Watch the following video for a brief overview of initial security settings to configure.
https://learn-video.azurefd.net/vod/player?id=09b286e6-27c1-46d6-8ca4-
4c1b0324cc9c&locale=en-us&embedUrl=%2Fmicrosoft-365%2Fadmin%2Fsecurity-and-
compliance%2Fm365bp-security-benefits
For more information, see Microsoft 365 for business security overview
Download the digital threats guide
Our digital threats guide describes different kinds of threats and what you can do to protect
against these threats. Download this visual guide for you and your team:
PDF | PowerPoint
Cybersecurity playbook
The guidance in these goals is based upon the Zero Trust security model, and is summarized in
a downloadable Cybersecurity playbook .

--- Page 1929 of 2193 ---
Last updated on 09/09/2025

--- Page 1930 of 2193 ---
Monitor Microsoft 365 Business Premium
and Defender for Business
09/09/2025Applies to: ✅ Microsoft 365 Business Premium, ✅ Microsoft 365 for Campaigns
In Microsoft 365 Business Premium or the standalone version of Microsoft Defender for
Business, you need to prepare a plan for security maintenance and security operations. It's
important to keep your systems, devices, user accounts, and security policies up to date to help
protect against attacks. You can use this article as a guide to prepare your plan.
Security tasks are typically done by members of the Security Administrators and Security
Operators roles. For more information, see the following articles:
Learn more about admin roles
Assign security roles and permissions
 Tip
For information about general maintenance tasks in Business Premium, see Maintain
Microsoft 365 Business Premium.
Daily security tasks
ﾉ Expand table
Task Description
Check the Get a snapshot of the vulnerability of your organization to cybersecurity threats. A
Microsoft high exposure score means your organization is more vulnerable to exploitation.
Defender To check your score, do the following steps:
Vulnerability
1. In the Microsoft Defender portal, go to the Microsoft Defender Vulnerability
Management
Management dashboard at
dashboard
https://security.microsoft.com/tvm_dashboard/Endpoint .
2. On the Microsoft Defender Vulnerability Management dashboard page, go
to the Organization exposure score card. A higher exposure score means your
devices are more vulnerable to exploitation.
3. Select Improve score to see more details and security recommendations to
improve (lower) your exposure score.
Awareness of your exposure score helps you to:

--- Page 1931 of 2193 ---
Task Description
Quickly understand and identify high-level takeaways about the state of
security in your organization.
Detect and respond to areas that require investigation or action to improve
the current state.
Communicate with peers and management about the results of security
efforts.
For more information, see Use your vulnerability management dashboard in
Microsoft Defender for Business.
Review pending As threats are detected, remediation actions come into play. Depending on the
actions in the threat and your security settings configuration, remediation actions are taken
Action center automatically or only after approval, so you need to regularly monitor remediation
actions.
To check pending actions, do the following steps:
1. In the Defender portal, go to the Action Center page at
https://security.microsoft.com/action-center/ .
2. On the Action Center page, use the Pending tab to view and approve or reject
any pending actions. Actions on the Pending tab can arise from anti-virus
protection, anti-malware protection, automated investigations, manual
response activities, or live response sessions.
3. Use the History tab to view completed actions.
For more information, see Review remediation actions in the Action center.
Review devices Learn about threat detections on devices so you can promptly take any required
with threat actions (for example, isolate the device).
detections To review devices with threat detections, do the following steps:
1. In the Defender portal, go to the Security report page at
https://security.microsoft.com/reports .
2. On the Security report page, use the information in the Devices section to see
detected threats and details about detected malware on devices.
For more information, see Security report.
Check incidents Incidents are created as threats are detected and alerts are triggered.
and alerts To check your incidents and alerts, do the following steps:
1. In the Defender portal, go to the Incidents page at
https://security.microsoft.com/incidents .
2. On the Incidents page. incidents and the associated alerts are displayed.
3. When you select an incident from the list, a details flyout opens where you can
learn more about the alert. The details flyout contains the alert title, a list of
affected assets (for example, endpoints or user accounts), available actions,
links to view more information, and a link to an alert details page.

--- Page 1932 of 2193 ---
Task Description
For more information, see View and manage incidents in Microsoft Defender for
Business.
Run a scan or You can initiate a scan or an automated investigation on a device that has a high risk
automated level or detected threats. Depending on the results, remediation actions are taken
investigation automatically or after approval.
To run a scan or automated investigation on a device, do the following steps:
1. In the Defender portal, go to the Device inventory page at
https://security.microsoft.com/machines .
2. On the Device inventory page, select a device from the list by clicking
anywhere in the row other than the check box or the Name value.
3. At the top of the devices details flyout that opens, select More actions, and
then select Run antivirus scan or Initiate Automated Investigation.
For more information, see Manage devices in Microsoft Defender for Business.
Weekly security tasks
ﾉ Expand table
Task Description
Monitor and Microsoft Secure Score is a measurement of your organization's security posture.
improve your Higher numbers indicate your organization needs fewer improvement actions. By
Microsoft using Secure Score, you can:
Secure Score Report on the current state of your organization's security posture.
Improve your security posture by providing discoverability, visibility, guidance,
and control.
Compare with benchmarks and establish key performance indicators (KPIs).
To check your score, do the following steps:
1. In the Defender portal, go to the Microsoft Secure Score page at
https://security.microsoft.com/exposure-secure-score .
2. On the Microsoft Secure Score page, review and make decisions about the
remediations and actions in order to improve your overall Microsoft secure
score.
For more information, see Assess your security posture with Microsoft Secure Score.

--- Page 1933 of 2193 ---
Task Description
Monitor and Remediate issues using the security recommendations list. As you do, your Microsoft
improve your Secure Score for Devices improves and your organization becomes more resilient
Microsoft against cybersecurity threats and vulnerabilities.
Secure Score for To check your secure score for devices, do the following steps:
Devices
1. In the Microsoft Defender portal, go to the Microsoft Defender Vulnerability
Management dashboard at
https://security.microsoft.com/tvm_dashboard/Endpoint .
2. On the Microsoft Defender Vulnerability Management dashboard page, go to
the Microsoft Secure Score for Devices card, and then do one of the following
steps to open the Security recommendations page:
Select the data in one of the available categories (for example,
Application, OS, Network, **Accounts, or Security controls) to open the
Security recommendations page filtered by that category.
Select Improve score to open the the Security recommendations page
unfiltered
3. On the Security recommendations page, select an entry from the list. The
details flyout that opens has General Remediation options, and Exposed
devices tabs that contain details related to the recommendation.
4. On the Remediation options tab, select Remediation options, fill out the form,
and then select Submit.
5.
6. Send a follow-up notification email to your security admin to approve or reject
the request.
7. View the status of the remediation on the Remediation page at
https://security.microsoft.com/remediation/remediation-activities .
/
For more information, see Use your vulnerability management dashboard in
Microsoft Defender for Business.
Monthly security tasks
ﾉ Expand table
Task Description
Run Many security reports are available on the Reports page in the Defender portal at
security https://security.microsoft.com/securityreports . For more information, see the following
reports articles:
Reports in Microsoft Defender for Business
View email security reports in the Microsoft Defender portal

--- Page 1934 of 2193 ---
Task Description
View Defender for Office 365 reports in the Microsoft Defender portal
Mail flow reports in the new Exchange admin center in Exchange Online
As needed security tasks
ﾉ Expand table
Task Description
Manage false False positives are good items identified as bad. False negatives are bad items that
positives and aren't identified as threats. False positives and false negatives happen in any threat
false negatives protection solution, including Defender for Office 365 Plan 1 and Defender for Business,
which are both included in Microsoft 365 Business Premium. Fortunately, you can take
steps to address and reduce false positives and false negatives:
Devices: See Address false positives/negatives in Microsoft Defender for
Endpoint.
Email & collaboration: See the following articles:
Handle false negative email messages in Defender for Office 365
>Handle false positive email messages in Defender for Office 365
.
Strengthen Defender for Business includes the Microsoft Defender Vulnerability Management
your security dashboard that gives your organization an exposure score, shows information about
posture exposed devices, and shows relevant security recommendations. Use the dashboard to
reduce your organization's exposure to threats and improve your security posture.
For more information, see the following articles:
Use your vulnerability management dashboard in Microsoft Defender for
Business
Dashboard insights
.
Adjust security Reports display information about detected threats, device status, and more.
policies Sometimes it's necessary to adjust your security policies or apply more strict or less
strict settings to specific groups of users.
For more information, see the following articles:
Devices: See View or edit policies in Microsoft Defender for Business.
Email & collaboration: See the following articles:
Recommended email and collaboration threat policy settings for cloud
organizations

--- Page 1935 of 2193 ---
Task Description
Configuration analyzer for threat policies in cloud organizations
Configure threat policies in Defender for Office 365
Admin Sometimes it's necessary to submit suspicious or misjudged email messages, email
submissions attachments, or URLs to Microsoft for further analysis. Reporting these items is critical
to train the system to reduce false positives and false negatives, and to improve threat
detection accuracy.
For more information, see the following articles:
Submit suspected spam, phish, URLs, legitimate email getting blocked, and email
attachments to Microsoft
Admin review for user reported messages
Protect priority Accounts for executives, leaders, or other users with access to sensitive, proprietary, or
accounts high priority information are valuable targets for attackers. If compromised, these
accounts pose a serious threat to the security and stability of your organization. We call
these types of accounts priority accounts. In Business Premium, you can designate
specific users as priority accounts so they receive targeted and more appropriate
protections.
For more information, see the following articles:
Admin account security in Microsoft 365 for business
Security recommendations for priority accounts in Microsoft 365
Manage and monitor priority accounts
User tags (priority accounts) in reports and features
Protect high- The overall risk assessment of a device is based on a combination of factors (for
risk devices example, the type and severity of active alerts on the device). As you resolve active
alerts, approve remediation activities, and suppresses subsequent alerts, the risk level
decreases.
For more information, see Manage devices in Microsoft Defender for Business.
Onboard or As you replace or retire devices, purchase new devices, or your business needs change,
offboard you can onboard or offboard devices from Defender for Business.
devices
For more information, see the following articles:
>Onboard devices to Microsoft Defender for Business
Offboard devices from Microsoft Defender for Business

--- Page 1936 of 2193 ---
Task Description
Remediate an Several remediation actions are available. Some actions are taken automatically, and
item others await approval.
1. In the Defender portal, go to the Device inventory page at
https://security.microsoft.com/machines .
2. On the Device inventory page, select a device from the list by clicking anywhere
in the row other than the check box or the Name value (for example, select a
device with a higher Risk level or Exposure level value).
3. At the top of the devices details flyout that opens, select More actions, and
then select and available action. For example, you might select Run antivirus
scan or Initiate Automated Investigation.
For more information, see Manage devices in Microsoft Defender for Business.
Remediation actions for devices
The following table summarizes remediation actions that are available for devices in Microsoft
365 Business Premium and Defender for Business:
ﾉ Expand table
Source Actions
Automated investigations Quarantine a file
Remove a registry key
Kill a process
Stop a service
Disable a driver
Remove a scheduled task
Manual response actions Run antivirus scan
Isolate device
Add an indicator to block or allow a file
Live response Collect forensic data
Analyze a file
Run a script
Send a suspicious entity to Microsoft for analysis
Remediate a file
Proactively hunt for threats

--- Page 1937 of 2193 ---
See also
Security incident management
Reports in Defender for Business
Microsoft 365 for business security best practices

--- Page 1938 of 2193 ---
Add Microsoft Defender Suite for Business
Premium to your subscription
09/24/2025Applies to: ✅ Microsoft 365 Business Premium, ✅ Microsoft 365 for Campaigns
As you probably already know, Microsoft 365 Business Premium is an excellent productivity
and security solution for small and medium sized businesses up to 300 users. With this
solution, you get:
Microsoft 365 Apps installed on your devices
Protection for your user accounts with Microsoft Entra ID P1
Endpoint management, security, and mobile application management with Microsoft
Intune Plan 1
Protection for your devices with Microsoft Defender for Business
Protection for email and files with Microsoft Defender for Office 365 Plan 1
Microsoft Purview Information Protection and data loss prevention (DLP) for email and
files with Microsoft Purview.
Extend your current security capabilities with
Microsoft Defender Suite for Business Premium
You can now extend the security capabilities you have in Microsoft 365 Business Premium by
adding Microsoft Defender Suite for Business Premium to your subscription. Adding Microsoft
Defender Suite for Business Premium to Microsoft 365 Business Premium provides your
business with even more protection in a cost-effective solution.
See the Tech Community Blog: Microsoft Defender Suite for Business Premium is now
available as an add-on to Microsoft 365 Business Premium .
Microsoft Defender Suite for Business Premium at a glance
Microsoft Defender Suite for Business Premium up levels your Microsoft 365 Business Premium
security capabilities with:
Enhanced identity and access controls with Microsoft Entra ID P2, which adds advanced
security and governance features with Microsoft Entra ID Protection and Microsoft Entra
ID Governance.
Identity protection with Microsoft Defender for Identity, which is an identity threat
detection and response (ITDR) solution that helps secure identity monitoring across your
organization.

--- Page 1939 of 2193 ---
Device security with Microsoft Defender for Endpoint Plan 2, which adds threat hunting,
live response, six months of data retention on the device, and endpoint security for IoT
devices.
Collaboration security with Microsoft Defender for Office 365 Plan 2, which adds
automated investigation and response, attack simulation training, threat trackers,
advanced hunting, incident and alert investigation, and threat explorer.
Software as a Service (SaaS) security with Microsoft Defender for Cloud Apps, which
enables IT teams to identify and manage shadow IT and ensure that only approved
applications are used.
Compare the upgraded features in Microsoft Defender Suite
for Business Premium
The upgraded features in Defender for Endpoint Plan 2 vs. Defender for Business are described
in Differences between Defender for Business and Defender for Endpoint Plan 2.
The upgraded features in Defender for Office 365 Plan 2 vs. Plan 1 are described at Defender
for Office 365 Plan 1 vs. Plan 2 cheat sheet.
The upgraded features in Microsoft Entra ID P2 vs. P1 are described at Microsoft Entra plans
and pricing .
Try or buy Microsoft Defender Suite for Business
Premium today
To get Microsoft Defender Suite for Business Premium, you have the following options:
Work with a Microsoft Partner
Visit Microsoft Security for Business
See also
Microsoft 365 User Subscription Suites for Small and Medium-sized Businesses

--- Page 1940 of 2193 ---
Microsoft 365 Business Premium Partner Playbook

--- Page 1941 of 2193 ---
Secure Microsoft 365 Copilot for small
businesses
09/09/2025
Applies to: ✅ Microsoft 365 Business Basic, ✅ Microsoft 365 Business Standard, ✅ Microsoft 365 Business
Premium, ✅ Microsoft 365 for Campaigns
This article explains the differences in security and compliance controls in Microsoft 365
Copilot in Microsoft 365 for business, which includes Microsoft 365 Business Basic, Microsoft
365 Business Standard, and Microsoft 365 Business Premium. This article doesn't attempt to
describe the full capabilities of Microsoft 365 Copilot or the full security and compliance
features in Microsoft 365 for business.
The following sections contain scenarios to clarify how security features in Business Basic,
Business Standard, and Business Premium can help protect you when you use Microsoft 365
Copilot.
Enable new levels of user productivity while
safeguarding company data and resources
How can companies enable new levels of user productivity with tools like Microsoft 365 Copilot
while safeguarding company data and resources?
Business Basic and Business Standard: Use the following capabilities to make sure that
unauthorized users can't use Microsoft 365 Copilot to access information or confidential
data in files where they don't have access:
Sign in without a password using multifactor authentication to help ensure only
authorized users have access to data.
Ensure only enrolled, compliant devices can access Microsoft 365 resources with
device-based Conditional Access.
Wipe all work content, including content generated by Copilot if a device is lost, stolen,
or compromised.
Revoke work access on noncompliant devices except Windows devices
Business Premium: Extended protection in the following scenarios:
Further prevent external bad actors from gaining access to Microsoft 365 resources.
Protect against user misuse of Microsoft 365 Copilot by creating conditions to grant
internal access.
Reduce the ability for users or external parties from inappropriately saving or leaking
data outside the organization.

--- Page 1942 of 2193 ---
The following capabilities in Business Premium lead to results in those scenarios:
Use biometrics to sign in to your Microsoft 365 account using Windows Hello for
Business (enabled in Windows 11 Pro, which is available in Business Premium).
Grant access to Microsoft 365 resources only when specific conditions are met
(identity, device, and location) using user-based Conditional Access.
Require users or guests to accept the terms of use policy before gaining access to
resources.
Restrict the use of Microsoft 365 apps, Microsoft Teams, and Copilot in these apps on
personal devices.
Prevent saving files to unprotected apps.
Restrict the ability to copy and forward confidential business information with data loss
prevention for email and files.
Keep sensitive or personal data from being
exposed
How can companies ensure that sensitive or personal data isn't exposed when using Microsoft
365 Copilot?
Use the following capabilities in Business Basic or Business Standard to make sure that
unauthorized users can't use Microsoft 365 Copilot to gain access to information or
confidential data in files that they don't have access to:
Change default sharing options in SharePoint and OneDrive.
Prohibit Microsoft 365 Copilot from including sensitive data that users don't have
permissions to view in generated responses.
Exclude sensitive files that users don't have permissions to view from processing by
Copilot.
Business Premium further extends the protection of sensitive data by requiring sensitivity
labels for Microsoft 365 content. These labels help ensure that only users with specific
permissions can use Microsoft 365 Copilot to access, generate, or share sensitive data.
Matching sensitivity labels are automatically applied to any content generated by
Microsoft 365 Copilot.
The following capabilities in Business Premium lead to those protections:
Protect Microsoft 365 data from access by unauthorized users by implementing
manual, default, and mandatory content labeling.
Microsoft 365 Copilot automatically inherits and applies sensitivity labels that match
any queried material or references.

--- Page 1943 of 2193 ---
Support regulatory compliance and eDiscovery
requests
How can companies monitor interactions with Microsoft 365 Copilot and support related
regulatory compliance or eDiscovery requests?
In Business Basic or Business Standard, companies can achieve the following results:
Monitor, search, and export user interactions with Microsoft 365 Copilot, and any
content generated by Microsoft 365 Copilot.
Define how long content generated by Microsoft 365 Copilot should be retained
within Microsoft 365.
The following capabilities in Business Basic or Business Standard lead to these results:
Search for and export Copilot interactions by content and keyword search.
Maintain a log of all Microsoft 365 Copilot interactions within the organization.
Apply retention or deletion policies for Copilot interactions and any generated content.
Business Premium further extends the support for investigations or other legal processes
by asserting a legal hold on material associated with Microsoft 365 Copilot.
In Business Premium, use eDiscovery (Standard) to search for Copilot interactions by
content, keyword search, create cases, assign managers, apply legal hold, and export the
search results to investigate incidents and respond to litigation.
Appendix
The available security and compliance features related to Microsoft 365 Copilot in Business
Basic, Business Standard, and Business Premium is summarized in the following tables:
Identity and Access Management (Microsoft Entra ID):
ﾉ Expand table
Scenario Business Business Business
Basic Standard Premium
Sign in to Microsoft 365 Copilot with a single identity. ✔ ✔ ✔
Enforce MFA when accessing Microsoft 365 to use Copilot. ✔ ✔ ✔
Enable end-user password reset, change, and unlock when Cloud Cloud ✔
accessing Microsoft 365. users users

--- Page 1944 of 2193 ---
Scenario Business Business Business
Basic Standard Premium
Implement Conditional Access policies based on identity, ✔
device, and location when accessing Microsoft 365 to use
Copilot.
Enable near real-time access policies enforcement, evaluate ✔
critical events, and immediately revoke access to Microsoft
365.
Require users or guests to accept terms of use policy before ✔
gaining access.
Endpoint Management (Basic Mobility and Security or Intune):
ﾉ Expand table
Scenario Business Business Business
Basic Standard Premium
Push/deploy Microsoft 365 apps to devices and grant access ✔
to Copilot in those apps.
Manage Microsoft 365 app updates. ✔
Restrict the use of Microsoft 365 apps and Teams (and Copilot ✔
in those apps) on personal devices.
Prevent saving files (including files generated by Copilot) to ✔
unprotected apps.
Wipe all work content (including content generated by ✔ ✔ ✔
Copilot) if a device is lost, stolen, or compromised.
Revoke work access on noncompliant devices. iOS, ✔
Android
Data Security and Compliance (Information Protection):
ﾉ Expand table
Scenario Business Business Business
Basic Standard Premium
Search for Copilot generated data and Search and Search and Search and export
interactions with eDiscovery capabilities. export results export results results
and

--- Page 1945 of 2193 ---
Scenario Business Business Business
Basic Standard Premium
Case management
and legal hold
Audit logs for Copilot interactions. Audit Audit Audit (Standard)
(Standard) (Standard)
Apply a manual retention policy for Copilot ✔ ✔ ✔
interactions.
Data loss prevention (DLP) policies to Files and email
protect sensitive data generated by Copilot
and saved in Microsoft 365 locations from
exfiltration.
Inherit sensitivity labels and cite sensitivity ✔
labels in output and references in Copilot.
Prohibit Copilot from including sensitive ✔ ✔
data where users have no extract
permissions.
Exclude sensitive files that users have no ✔ ✔ ✔
permission to view from processing by
Copilot.
Manually label and protect Microsoft 365 Files and email
content used by Copilot.

--- Page 1946 of 2193 ---
Multifactor authentication in Microsoft 365
Passwords are the most common method of authenticating users, but they're also the most
vulnerable. People often use weak, easy to guess passwords, and use the same credentials at
different services.
To provide an extra level of security, multifactor authentication (also known as MFA, two-factor
authentication, or 2FA) requires a second verification method for user sign-ins based on:
Something a user has that isn't easily duplicated. For example, a smart phone.
Something unique to the user. For example, a fingerprint or other biometric attributes.
The extra verification method is used only after the password is verified. Even if a strong user
password is compromised, the attacker doesn't have the user's smart phone or fingerprints to
complete the sign-in.
The available methods to enable MFA in Microsoft 365 organizations, including Microsoft 365 for
business organizations, are described in the following sections.
For configuration instructions, see Set up MFA for Microsoft 365.
Security defaults
Security defaults is a set of unmodifiable policies in all Microsoft 365 organizations via Microsoft
Entra ID Free.
Security defaults include the following security features:
Require all users and admins to register for Microsoft Entra multifactor authentication (MFA)
using the Microsoft Authenticator app or any non-Microsoft authentication app that
supports OATH TOTP.
Require MFA for administrator accounts at every sign in.
Require MFA for users when necessary (for example, on new devices).
Block legacy authentication protocols (for example, POP3 and IMAP4 in old email clients).
Require MFA for users and admins accessing Azure Resource Manager services (for example,
the Microsoft Azure portal).
Security defaults is either on or off in an organization. Microsoft 365 organizations created after
October 2019 have security defaults (hence, MFA) turned on by default, so you don't need to do

--- Page 1947 of 2193 ---
anything to enable security defaults or MFA in a new organization. For many organizations,
security defaults offer a good, baseline level of sign-in security.
For more information about security defaults and the policies enforced, see Enforced security
policies in security defaults.
To configure security defaults, see Manage security defaults.
Conditional Access policies
As an alternative to using security defaults, Conditional Access policies are available for
organizations who have Microsoft Entra ID P1 or P2. Examples include:
Microsoft 365 Business Premium (Microsoft Entra ID P1)
Microsoft 365 E3 (Microsoft Entra ID P1)
Microsoft 365 E5 (Microsoft Entra ID P2)
An add-on subscription
 Tip
Organizations with Microsoft Entra ID P2 also have access to Microsoft Entra ID Protection.
You can create a Conditional Access policy to require multifactor authentication for
elevated sign-in risk. For more information, see What is Microsoft Entra ID Protection?.
You create Conditional Access policies that react to sign-in events before a user is granted access
to an application or service. If your organization has complex security requirements or you need
granular control over security policies, you can use Conditional Access policies instead of security
defaults.
） Important
Organizations can use security defaults or Conditional Access policies, but not both at the
same time. Conditional Access policies require security defaults to be turned off, so it's
important to recreate the policies from security defaults in Conditional Access policies as a
baseline for all users.
For more information about Conditional Access policies, see What is Conditional Access?.
To configure Conditional Access policies, see Manage Conditional Access policies.

--- Page 1948 of 2193 ---
Legacy per-user MFA (not recommended)
If you can't use security defaults or Conditional Access for business reasons, your last option is
using legacy MFA for individual Microsoft Entra ID accounts. This option is avialable with the
Microsoft Entra ID Free plan. We strongly recommend MFA for accounts with administrator roles,
especially the Global Administrator role.
For configuration instructions, see Enable per-user Microsoft Entra multifactor authentication to
secure sign-in events.
） Important
Microsoft recommends that you use roles with the fewest permissions. Using lower
permissioned accounts helps improve security for your organization. Global Administrator is
a highly privileged role that should be limited to emergency scenarios when you can't use an
existing role. To learn more, see About admin roles in the Microsoft 365 admin center.
Comparing MFA methods
The following table shows the results of enabling MFA with security defaults, Conditional Access
policies, or per-user account settings.
ﾉ Expand table
Method Method enabled Method disabled Available authentication
methods
Security defaults If security defaults is turned After you turn off Microsoft Authenticator app
on, you can create new security defaults, you or any non-Microsoft
Conditional Access policies, can turn on authentication app that
but you can't turn them on. Conditional Access supports OATH TOTP.
policies.
Conditional Access If one or more Conditional If there are no Microsoft Authenticator app
policies Access policies exist in any Conditional Access or any non-Microsoft
state (Off, On, or Report policies, you can authentication app that
only), you can't turn on enable security supports OATH TOTP.
security defaults. defaults.
Other authentication
methods might also be
available, depending on the
configured authentication
strength.

--- Page 1949 of 2193 ---
Method Method enabled Method disabled Available authentication
methods
Legacy per-user Overrides security defaults Overridden by User-specified during MFA
MFA (not and Conditional Access security defaults or registration
recommended) policies requiring MFA at Conditional Access
each sign-in. policies
Next steps
Admins:
Set up MFA for Microsoft 365
Admin account security in Microsoft 365 for business
Users: Set up your Microsoft 365 sign-in for multifactor authentication and the following
video:
https://learn-video.azurefd.net/vod/player?id=eb0acd2a-edf5-4c1d-8e72-
e3254bc7dc12&locale=en-us&embedUrl=%2Fmicrosoft-365%2Fadmin%2Fsecurity-and-
compliance%2Fmulti-factor-authentication-microsoft-365
Related content
Turn on multifactor authentication (video)
Turn on multifactor authentication for your phone (video)
Last updated on 10/10/2025

--- Page 1950 of 2193 ---
Set up multifactor authentication for
Microsoft 365
Multifactor authentication (also known as MFA, two-factor authentication, or 2FA) requires a
second verification method for user sign-ins and improves account security.
This article contains instructions to set up MFA using the available options:
Security defaults: Available in all Microsoft 365 organizations via Microsoft Entra ID Free.
Conditional Access policies: Available in Microsoft 365 organizations with Microsoft Entra ID
P1 or P2.
Legacy per-user MFA (not recommended): Available in all Microsoft 365 organizations via
Microsoft Entra ID Free.
For information about the different options for MFA in Microsoft 365, see Multifactor
authentication in Microsoft 365
What do you need to know before you begin?
You must have appropriate permissions assigned before you can complete the procedures
in this article. Here are some options:
Microsoft Entra permissions:
Turn on or turn off security defaults: Membership in the Global Administrator or
Security Administrator roles.
Create and manage Conditional Access policies: Membership in the Global
Administrator or Conditional Access Administrator roles.
） Important
Microsoft recommends that you use roles with the fewest permissions. Using lower
permissioned accounts helps improve security for your organization. Global
Administrator is a highly privileged role that should be limited to emergency
scenarios when you can't use an existing role.
To use security defaults or Conditional Access, you need to turn off legacy per-user MFA for
users in your organization. If your organization's subscription was started after 2019, legacy

--- Page 1951 of 2193 ---
per-user MFA is most likely not turned on. For more information, see Enable per-user
Microsoft Entra multifactor authentication to secure sign-in events.
７ Note
If you have non-Microsoft directory services with Active Directory Federation Services (AD
FS) configured before July 2019, set up the Azure MFA Server. For more information, see
Advanced scenarios with Microsoft Entra multifactor authentication and non-Microsoft
VPN solutions.
Manage security defaults
Microsoft 365 tenants created after October 2019 have security defaults turned on by default. To
view or change the current status of security defaults in your organization, follow these steps:
1. In the Microsoft Entra admin center , go to Identity > Overview. Or, to go directly to the
Microsoft Entra overview page .
2. On the overview page, select the Properties tab, and the go to the Security defaults section
at the bottom of the tab.
Depending on the current status of security defaults, one of the following experiences is
available:
Security defaults is on: The following text is shown and Manage security defaults is
available:
Your organization is protected by security defaults.
One or more Conditional Access policies exist in Microsoft Entra ID P1 or P2: The
following text is shown and Manage security defaults isn't available:
Your organization is currently using Conditional Access policies which prevents
you from enabling security defaults. You can use Conditional Access to configure
custom policies that enable the same behavior provided by security defaults.
Manage Conditional Access takes you to the Policies page where you can manage
Conditional Access policies. To switch between security defaults and Conditional

--- Page 1952 of 2193 ---
Access policies, see the Revert to security defaults from Conditional Access policies
section in this article.
Security defaults is off: The following text is shown and Manage security defaults is
available:
Your organization is not protected by security defaults.
3. If Manage security defaults is available, select it to turn on or turn off security defaults.
In the Security defaults flyout that opens, do one of the following:
Turn on security defaults: In the Security defaults dropdown list, select Enabled, and
then select Save.
Turn off security defaults: In the Security defaults dropdown list, select Disabled. In
the Reason for disabling section, select My organization is planning to use
Conditional Access.
When you're finished in the Security defaults flyout, select Save
Ｕ Caution
Don't turn off security defaults unless you're switching to Conditional Access policies in
Microsoft Entra ID P1 or P2.
Manage Conditional Access policies
If your Microsoft 365 organization includes Microsoft Entra ID P1 or later, you can use
Conditional Access instead of security defaults for a higher security posture and more granular
control. For example:
Microsoft 365 Business Premium (Microsoft Entra ID P1)
Microsoft 365 E3 (Microsoft Entra ID P1)
Microsoft 365 E5 (Microsoft Entra ID P2)
An add-on subscription
For more information, see Plan a Conditional Access deployment.
Switching from security defaults to Conditional Access policies requires the following basic steps:
1. Turn off security defaults.

--- Page 1953 of 2193 ---
2. Create baseline Conditional Access policies to recreate the security policies in security
defaults.
3. Adjust MFA exclusions.
4. Create new Conditional Access policies.
 Tip
If security defaults are turned on, you can create new Conditional Access policies, but you
can't turn them on. After you turn off security defaults, you can turn on Conditional Access
policies.
Step 1: Turn off security defaults
Security defaults and Conditional Access policies can't be turned on at the same time, so the first
thing you need to do is turn off security defaults.
For instructions, see the previous Manage security defaults section in this article.
Step 2: Create baseline Conditional Access policies to recreate
the policies in security defaults
The policies in security defaults are the Microsoft-recommended baseline for all organizations, so
it's important to recreate these policies in Conditional Access before you create other Conditional
Access policies.
The following templates in Conditional Access recreate the policies in security defaults:
Require MFA for all users
Require MFA for administrators (To improve your security posture, see Require phishing-
resistant MFA for administrators)
Block legacy authentication
Require MFA for Azure management
To create Conditional Access policies using these templates, follow these steps:
1. In the Microsoft Entra admin center, go to the Conditional Access | Policies page .
2. On the Conditional Access | Policies page, select New policy from template.

--- Page 1954 of 2193 ---
3. On the New policy from template page, verify the Select a template tab is selected. On the
Select a template tab, verify the Secure foundation tab is selected.
4. On the Secure foundation tab, select one of the required templates (for example, Require
multifactor authentication for all users), and then select Review + Create.
 Tip
To find and select the Require phishing-resistant multifactor authentication for
admins template, use the Search box.
5. On the Review + Create tab, view or configure the following settings:
Basics section:
Policy name: Accept the default name or customize it.
Policy state: Select On
Assignments section: In the Users and groups section, notice the Excluded users
value is Current user and you can't change it. Only emergency access accounts should
be excluded from MFA requirements. For more information, see the next step.
When you're finished on the Review + Create tab, select Create.
The policy you created is shown on the Conditional Access | Policies page.
6. Repeat the previous steps for the remaining templates.
Step 3: Adjust MFA exclusions
By default, the Conditional Access policies you created in the previous step contains exclusions
for the account you were signed in as, and you can't modify exclusions during policy creation.
We recommend at least two emergency access admin accounts in every organization that aren't
assigned to specific individuals and are only used in emergencies. These accounts need to be
excluded from MFA requirements.
You might need to remove the current account exclusions and/or add emergency access account
exclusions to the following policies:
Require MFA for all users
Require MFA for administrators or Require phishing-resistant MFA for administrators
Require MFA for Azure management

--- Page 1955 of 2193 ---
Before you create custom Conditional Access policies, create your emergency access accounts
and then use the following steps to adjust the exclusions for MFA-related policies:
1. On the Conditional Access | Policies page , select one of the MFA-related policies that you
created in the previous step (for example, Require multifactor authentication for Azure
management).
2. On the policy details page that opens, select All users included and specific users excluded
in the Assignments > Users section.
3. In the information that appears, select the Exclude tab.
4. On the Exclude tab, the following settings are configured:
Select the users and groups to exempt from the policy: The value Users and groups
is selected.
Select excluded users and groups: The value 1 user is shown, and the user account
that was used to create the policy is shown.
To remove the current account from the excluded users list, select > Remove.
The value changes to 0 users and groups selected and the warning text Select at least
one user or group appears.
To add emergency access accounts to the excluded users list, select 0 users and
groups selected. In the Select excluded users and groups flyout that opens, find
and select the emergency access accounts to exclude. The selected users are shown
in the Selected pane. When you're finished, select Select.
Back on the policy details page, select Save.
5. Repeat the previous steps for the remaining MFA-related policies.
 Tip
The Block legacy authentication policy probably needs no exclusions, so you can use the
previous steps to remove the existing exclusion. Just uncheck Users and groups in Step 4.
For more information about user exclusions in Conditional Access policies, see User
exclusions.
Step 4: Create new Conditional Access policies

--- Page 1956 of 2193 ---
Now you can create Conditional Access policies that meet your business needs. For more
information, see Plan a Conditional Access deployment.
Revert to security defaults from Conditional Access policies
Security defaults are turned off when you're using Conditional Access policies. If one or more
Conditional Access policies exist in any state (Off, On, or Report only), you can't turn on security
defaults. You need to delete all existing Conditional Access policies before you can turn on
security defaults.
Ｕ Caution
Before you delete any Conditional Access policies, be sure to record their settings.
To delete Conditional Access policies, use the following steps:
1. On the Conditional Access | Policies page , select the policy that you want to delete.
2. In the details page that opens, select Delete at the top of the page.
3. In the Are you sure? dialog that opens, select Yes.
After you delete all Conditional Access policies, you can turn on security defaults as described in
Manage security defaults.
Manage legacy per-user MFA
We strongly recommend using security defaults or Conditional Access for MFA in Microsoft 365.
If you can't, your last option is MFA for individual Microsoft Entra ID accounts via Microsoft Entra
ID Free.
For instructions, see Enable per-user Microsoft Entra multifactor authentication to secure sign-in
events.
Next steps
Admins: Admin account security in Microsoft 365 for business
Users:
What is multifactor authentication

--- Page 1957 of 2193 ---
Sign-in after registration
If you can't sign in, see How end users can perform account recovery in Microsoft Entra
ID
Change how you do additional verification
Set up your Microsoft 365 sign-in for multifactor authentication and the following
video:
https://learn-video.azurefd.net/vod/player?id=eb0acd2a-edf5-4c1d-8e72-
e3254bc7dc12&locale=en-us&embedUrl=%2Fmicrosoft-365%2Fadmin%2Fsecurity-and-
compliance%2Fset-up-multi-factor-authentication
Related content
Small business help & learning
YouTube: Microsoft 365 small business help
Set up multifactor authentication
Turn on multifactor authentication for your phone
Multifactor authentication for Microsoft 365
Last updated on 12/11/2025

--- Page 1958 of 2193 ---
Admin account security in Microsoft 365
for business
Applies to: ✅ Microsoft 365 Business Basic, ✅ Microsoft 365 Business Standard, ✅ Microsoft 365 Business
Premium, ✅ Microsoft 365 for Campaigns
Although multifactor authentication (MFA) is turned on by default for all accounts in Microsoft
365 for business organizations, administrator or admin accounts require extra security
considerations unrelated to MFA. Admin accounts have elevated privileges and are valuable
targets for attackers. At the same time, admin accounts are fundamental to the operation and
management of your organization.
The account you used to enroll in Microsoft 365 for business is automatically a Global
Administrator (also known as a global admin). Global admins have ultimate control over user
accounts and all the other settings in the Microsoft admin center
(https://admin.microsoft.com ). But there are many different kinds of admin capabilities with
varying levels of access. For more information, see About admin roles in the Microsoft 365
admin center.
Use the following guidance to make the most of admin accounts while protecting your
organization from attackers:
Be sure to have more than one admin account: We recommend at least two admin
emergency access accounts in every organization that aren't assigned to specific
individuals and are only used in emergencies. These accounts also need to be excluded
from MFA requirements and therefore should have long, complex passwords (16 or more
characters). These accounts are also known as "break glass accounts."
For admin account creation instructions, see Add an administrator.
） Important
Limit the number of admin accounts your organization. Too many admin accounts
provide attackers with more opportunities to compromise your organization.
Use the concept least privilege, which means you give users only the permissions
required to do their jobs. For example, if a user needs to create user accounts, don't
add them to the Global Administrator role; add them to the User Administrator role
instead. For more information, see the following articles:
Enhance security with the principle of least privilege
About admin roles in the Microsoft 365 admin center

--- Page 1959 of 2193 ---
Use ordinary user accounts for regular work tasks: Admins should use non-admin
accounts as primary accounts to sign in to their computers and do regular tasks like
checking email and using Microsoft 365 Apps. Use your admin account only as needed.
Before using admin accounts, close all unrelated browser sessions and apps, including
personal email accounts. You can also use InPrivate, Incognito, or Private browsing
mode for admin tasks.
After completing admin tasks, be sure to sign out of the browser session.
For account creation instructions, see Add users and assign licenses at the same time.
 Tip
Ordinary user accounts need Microsoft 365 for business licenses, but you don't need
to license admin only accounts.
Use a naming convention that doesn't advertise the fact that an account has admin
privileges. For example, your regular user account is
alice.chavez@contoso.onmicrosoft.com, and your admin account is
alicec@contoso.onmicrosoft.com.
Use passwordless authentication for admin accounts: For more information, see Enable
passwordless sign-in with Authenticator.
Microsoft 365 Business Basic and Microsoft 365 Business Standard organizations
support the following passwordless authentication options via Microsoft Entra ID Free:
The Microsoft Authenticator app with push notifications and biometric or PIN
verification.
Passkeys (FIDO2)
Windows Hello for Business
Microsoft 365 Business Premium via Microsoft Entra ID P1 also allows you to require
passwordless authentication and authentication strength for admin accounts using
Conditional Access. For more information, see Conditional Access authentication
strength.
Last updated on 01/06/2026

--- Page 1960 of 2193 ---
Manage and monitor priority accounts
Summarize this article for me
Every Microsoft 365 organization contains essential users like executives, leaders, managers, or
others who have access to sensitive, proprietary, or high priority information. You can
designate up to 250 of these users as priority accounts and (depending on your subscription)
use app-specific features that give them extra protection and visibility.
This article describes how to tag users and groups as priority accounts, and the extra
protections and visibility they get as priority accounts.
 Tip
For security best practices for high value accounts, see Security recommendations for
priority accounts in cloud organizations.
What do you need to know before you begin?
The maximum number of priority accounts is 250.
You need to be assigned permissions before you can do the procedures in this article. You
have the following options:
Microsoft Defender XDR Unified role based access control (RBAC) (If Email &
collaboration > Defender for Office 365 permissions is Active. Affects the
Defender portal only, not PowerShell): Authorization and settings/System
settings/manage or Authorization and settings/System settings/Read-only.
Email & collaboration permissions in the Microsoft Defender portal:
Apply and remove the Priority account tag from users: Membership in the Security
Administrator and Exchange Admin role groups.
Microsoft Entra permissions: Membership in the Global Administrator* or Security
Administrator roles gives users the required permissions and permissions for other
features in Microsoft 365.
） Important
* Microsoft recommends that you use roles with the fewest permissions. Using lower
permissioned accounts helps improve security for your organization. Global Administrator
is a highly privileged role that should be limited to emergency scenarios when you can't
use an existing role.

--- Page 1961 of 2193 ---
Manage priority accounts
You can manage priority accounts in the Microsoft Defender portal or the Microsoft 365 admin
center.
Manage priority accounts in the Microsoft Defender portal
1. In the Microsoft Defender portal at https://security.microsoft.com , go to Settings >
Email & collaboration > User tags. Or, to go directly to the User tags page, use
https://security.microsoft.com/securitysettings/userTags .
2. On the User tags page, do one of the following steps to select and edit the Priority
account tag:
Select the check box next to the first column of the Priority account row, and then
select the Edit action that appears.
Click anywhere in the Priority account row other than the check box. In the details
flyout that opens, select Edit at the top of the flyout
3. The Edit tag Priority account wizard opens. On the Assign members page, take either of
the following actions:
Add members: Do either of the following steps:
Select Add members. In the Add members flyout that opens, do any of the
following steps to add individual users or groups in the Search users and groups
to add box:
Click in the box and scroll through the list.
Start typing a name to filter the list, and then select the value below the box.
To add more members, click in an empty area in the box and repeat the previous
step.
To remove individual entries from the box, select next to the entry.
When you're finished on the Add members flyout, select Add.
Back on the Assign members page, the users and groups that you added are
listed by Name and Type.
Select Import to select a text file that contains the email addresses of the
users or groups (one entry per line).

--- Page 1962 of 2193 ---
Remove members: In the list of members on the Assign members page, select
Delete in the entry row.
When you're finished on the Assign members page, select Next.
4. On the Review tag page, review your settings. You can select Edit in each section to
modify the settings within the section. Or you can select Back or the specific page in the
wizard.
When you're finished on the Review tag page, select Submit.
5. On the Tag Priority account updated page, you can select the links to add a new tag or
manage the tag members.
When you're finished on the New tag created page, select Done.
 Tip
It can take up to 8 hours to completely apply tags.
Manage priority accounts in the Microsoft admin center
1. In the Microsoft admin center at https://admin.cloud.microsoft , go to the Priority
accounts page at https://admin.microsoft.com/Adminportal/Home#/priorityaccounts .
If you prefer the long way, go to Users > Active users > on the Active users page, select
More actions > Manage priority accounts.
2. On the Priority accounts page, take either of the following actions:
Add members:
a. Select Tag accounts. In the Tag user accounts as priority flyout that opens,
select one of the following values in How would you like to search for accounts?:
Name and email address (default)
Job title
Distribution list
When you're finished, select Next.
b. In the flyout that opens, find and select the users or distributions groups, and
then select Tag.

--- Page 1963 of 2193 ---
c. The process starts over on the Tag user accounts as priority flyout with the
Priority accounts tagged total updated (the maximum is 250). Select Next to tag
more users or distribution groups, or select Cancel to finish.
Back on the Priority accounts page, the users or groups you select are listed.
Remove members: In the list of members on the Priority accounts page, do either
of the following steps:
Select one or more entries from the list by selecting the check box next to the
Display name column, select the Remove tag action that appears, and then
select Remove in the confirmation dialog that appears.
⋮
Between the Display name and Username column values of an entry, select
More actions > Remove tag, and then select Remove in the confirmation
dialog that appears.
Monitor priority accounts
After you tag users or groups as priority accounts, they get the following protections and
visibility in Microsoft 365:
Visibility in reporting in Microsoft Defender for Office 365 Plan 1 or Plan 2: Microsoft
365 Business Premium and other subscriptions that include Defender for Office 365 (for
example, Microsoft 365 E5 or an add-on subscription) support priority accounts as tags in
filters in alerts, reports, and investigations. For more information, see User tags in
Microsoft Defender for Office 365.
Priority account protection in Defender for Office 365 Plan 2: A natural question is,
"Aren't all users a priority? Why not designate all users as priority accounts for priority
account protection?" Yes, all users are a priority, but priority account protection in
Defender for Office 365 Plan 2 (for example, in Business Premium with the Microsoft
Defender Suite for Business Premium add-on) offers the following benefits:
Other heuristics: Our analysis of mail flow in the Microsoft datacenters indicates that
mail flow patterns for company executives are different than the average user. Priority
account protection offers other heuristics specifically tailored to company executives
that don't benefit regular users.
Extra visibility in reporting: Priority account protection as a filter allows you to
specifically target your investigations.
For more information, see Configure and review priority account protection in Microsoft
Defender for Office 365.
 Tip

--- Page 1964 of 2193 ---
When you apply priority account protection to a mailbox, you should also apply
priority account protection to users with access to the mailbox. For example, the CEO
and their executive assistant.
Email monitoring in Exchange Online: Email monitoring features for priority accounts
have the following requirements:
At least 5,000 licenses in any combination of the following products:
Office 365 E3
Microsoft 365 E3
Office 365 E3
Microsoft 365 E5
For example, your organization has 3,000 Office 365 E3 licenses and 2,500 Microsoft
365 E5 licenses, for a total of 5,500 licenses from the qualifying products.
At least 50 monthly active users for one or more core workloads:
Microsoft Teams
OneDrive
SharePoint
Exchange Online
Microsoft 365 productivity apps
If your organization meets both of these requirements, you can use the following email
monitoring features for priority accounts:
Exchange Online priority account monitoring: You can view health of priority
accounts for scenarios like Exchange licensing, mailbox storage, message limit, and
mail delivery. For more information, see Priority accounts monitoring scenarios.
Premium Mail Flow Monitoring: Healthy mail flow can be critical to business success,
and delivery delays or failures can have a negative effect on the business. You can
choose a threshold for failed or delayed emails, receive alerts when that threshold is
exceeded, and view a report of email issues for priority accounts. For more
information, see Email issues for priority accounts report in the new EAC
More information
Using Priority Accounts in Microsoft 365
Last updated on 09/24/2025

--- Page 1965 of 2193 ---
Email and collaboration security in
Microsoft 365 for business
09/09/2025
Applies to: ✅ Microsoft 365 Business Basic, ✅ Microsoft 365 Business Standard, ✅ Microsoft 365 Business
Premium, ✅ Microsoft 365 for Campaigns
This article describes the configuration steps for email and collaboration you need to do in the
earliest days of your Microsoft 365 for business organization.
Although your organization includes a default level of protection for email and collaboration
from the moment you create it, the steps in this article give you an actionable plan to unleash
the full protection capabilities of Microsoft 365. After you complete the steps, you can also use
this article to show management that you're maximizing your investment in Microsoft 365.
Requirements
Default email protections are included in all Microsoft 365 organizations with cloud mailboxes.
Microsoft 365 Business Premium includes Microsoft Defender for Office 365 Plan 1 with more
mail and collaboration protections. For detailed comparisons of the default email protections
for cloud mailboxes and Defender for Office 365, see Microsoft Defender for Office 365
overview.
Roles and permissions
To configure email and collaboration protection features, you need permissions. The following
table lists the permissions that allow you to do the procedures in this article:
ﾉ Expand table
Role or role group Learn more
Global Administrator in Microsoft Entra* Microsoft Entra built-in roles
Organization Management in Email & Role groups in Microsoft Defender for Office 365
collaboration role groups
Security Administrator in Microsoft Entra Microsoft Entra built-in roles
Security Administrator in Email & collaboration Email & collaboration permissions in Microsoft
role groups Defender for Office 365
Exchange Online Organization Management Permissions in Exchange Online

--- Page 1966 of 2193 ---
Role or role group Learn more
SharePoint Administrator in Microsoft Entra About the SharePoint Administrator role in Microsoft
365
） Important
* Microsoft recommends that you use roles with the fewest permissions. Using lower
permissioned accounts helps improve security for your organization. Global Administrator
is a highly privileged role that should be limited to emergency scenarios when you can't
use an existing role.
Configure email authentication for your Microsoft
365 domains
Configure SPF, DKIM, and DMARC records (in that order) for all custom Microsoft 365 domains
(including parked domains and subdomains). If necessary, configure any trusted ARC sealers.
For more information, see Configure email authentication for your Microsoft 365 domains.
Configure threat policies
Turn on and use the Standard and/or Strict preset security policies for all recipients. Or, if
business needs dictate, create and use custom threat policies instead, but check them
periodically using the configuration analyzer.
For more information, see Configure threat policies.
Identify priority accounts
Identify and tag the appropriate users in your organization as priority accounts for easier
identification in reports and investigations.
For more information, see Priority accounts and user tags.
Review and configure user reported message
settings

--- Page 1967 of 2193 ---
Use the built-in Report button in Outlook or a supported non-Microsoft tool so users can
report false positives and false negatives in Outlook, and so those reported messages are
available to admins on the User-reported tab of the Submissions page in the Defender portal.
Configure the organization so reported messages go to a specified reporting mailbox, to
Microsoft, or both (default).
For more information, see Review and configure user reported message settings.
Prepare for block and allow entries
Familiarize yourself with the procedures to block and allow messages, files, and URLs in the
Microsoft Defender portal.
For more information, see Block and allow entries.
Adjust sharing settings for SharePoint and OneDrive files and
folders
By default, sharing levels are set to the most permissive level for both SharePoint and
OneDrive. We recommend changing the default settings to better protect your business:
1. In the Sharepoint admin center at https://admin.microsoft.com/sharepoint , go to
Policies > Sharing. Or, to go directly to the Sharing page, use
https://admin.microsoft.com/sharepoint?page=sharing .
2. On the Sharing page, configure the following settings:
External sharing section > Content can be shared with: We recommend Least
permissive for both SharePoint and OneDrive to prevent external sharing.
File and folder links section:
Choose the type of link that's selected by default when users share files and
folders in SharePoint and OneDrive: Select Specific people (only the people the
user specifies).
Choose the permission that's selected by default for sharing links: Select View.
Other settings: Verify the following settings are selected:
Show owners the names of people who viewed their files in OneDrive
Let site owners choose to display the names of people who viewed files or
pages in SharePoint
When you're finished on the Sharing page, select Save.
For more information, see Manage sharing settings.

--- Page 1968 of 2193 ---
Set up and review alert policies and alerts
Alert policies are useful for tracking user and admin activities, potential malware threats, and
data loss incidents in your business. Your subscription includes a set of default policies, but you
can also create custom policies. For example, if you store an important file in SharePoint that
you don't want to share externally, you can create an alert policy to notify you if someone
shares it.
1. In the Microsoft Defender portal at https://security.microsoft.com , go to Email &
collaboration > Policies & rules > Alert policy. Or, to go directly to the Alert policy page,
use https://security.microsoft.com/alertpoliciesv2 .
2. On the Alert policy page, review the default policies:
Click on the Name column header to sort the alert policies by name.
Use Filter to filter the alert policies by Category.
Click on the Name value of a policy to open the details flyout for more information
and notification options.
3. The alerts that result from alert policies are available on the Alerts page in the Defender
portal at Incidents & alerts > Alerts or directly at https://security.microsoft.com/alerts .
For more information, see Alert policies in the Microsoft Defender portal and View alerts.
Manage organization calendar sharing
You can help people share their calendars securely by limiting the level of detail they can share
(for example, free/busy times only).
1. In the Microsoft 365 admin center at https://admin.microsoft.com , go to Show all >
Settings > Org settings > Services tab. If you don't see Settings, select Show all. Or, to
go directly to the Services tab on the Org settings page, use
https://admin.microsoft.com/#/Settings/Services .
2. On the Services tab on the Org settings page, select Calendar.
3. In the Calendar flyout that opens, configure the following settings:
External sharing section:
Let your users share their calendars with people outside of your organization
who have Office 365 or Exchange: We recommend clearing this setting.

--- Page 1969 of 2193 ---

If you leave this setting selected, Allow anyone to access calendars with an email
invitation is also available. For this setting, we recommend Show calendar
free/busy information with time only.

When you're finished in the Calendar flyout, select Save.
If your users are allowed to share their calendars, see Share your calendar in Outlook on the
web .

--- Page 1970 of 2193 ---
Protect users against phishing and other
attacks in Microsoft 365 for business
09/09/2025
Applies to: ✅ Microsoft 365 Business Basic, ✅ Microsoft 365 Business Standard, ✅ Microsoft 365 Business
Premium, ✅ Microsoft 365 for Campaigns
In addition to the protections offered by Microsoft 365 for business, there are other steps all
users can take you help protect the organization. Make sure everyone understands the
following concepts:
Spam or junk mail: There are many reasons you might receive junk email and not all junk
mail is harmful. However, you can reduce the risks of attacks by taking steps to reduce
the amount of junk mail you receive.
Phishing: Phishing is an email that seems legitimate but is an attempt to get your
personal information, credentials, or money.
Spoofing: Spoofed messages appear to come from someone other than the actual
sender. For example, you have you ever received an email that appears to come from
you?
Malware: Malicious software that can be installed on your computer after you select a link
or open an attached file in an email message. There are various types of malware (for
example, ransomware, when your computer is taken over), but you don't want any of
them.
Use the following best practices to help users fend off attacks through email.
Reduce spam: Use the following best practices to help reduce the amount of unwanted
mail you receive: 10 tips on how to help reduce spam .
Report suspicious messages: Use the built-in Report button in Outlook on all platforms
or Outlook on the web (formerly known as Outlook Web App or OWA).
Admins configure whether the messages are sent to Microsoft for analysis, to a
designated reporting mailbox, or both as described in User reported settings.
Admins can also see user reported messages on the User reported tab of the
Submissions page in the Microsoft Defender portal as described in Admin options for
user reported messages.
Avoid phishing: Read about five common types of scams in Phishing and suspicious
behavior in Outlook . And use the following best practices:
Never reply to email asking for personal or account information.
Never select links in suspicious messages.

--- Page 1971 of 2193 ---
Never open file attachments in suspicious messages.
If an email appears to come from a company, verify the message by using other
resources to find and contact the company (don't use links or contact information in
the email).
Search the web for the email subject line to see if anyone else reported the message as
a scam.
Download this infographic: The infographic contains tips for admins and users:
PDF | PowerPoint
Stay secure and private at work .

--- Page 1972 of 2193 ---
Device protection in Microsoft 365
Business Premium
09/09/2025Applies to: ✅ Microsoft 365 Business Premium, ✅ Microsoft 365 for Campaigns
In Microsoft 365 Business Premium, you use device protection policies to configure security
settings for managed devices. There are preconfigured policies that help protect devices in
your organization after onboarding. You can use the default policies, edit existing policies, or
create your own policies.
The following types of device protection policies are available in Business Premium:
Microsoft Defender for Business:
Next-generation protection policies: Determine how Microsoft Defender Antivirus and
other threat protection features are configured on Windows devices. Supported
platforms:
Windows
Firewall policies: Determine what network traffic is permitted to flow to and from your
organization's Windows devices. Supported platforms:
Windows
 Tip
Although not covered in this article, Defender for Business also includes the
following policies to help protect devices:
Web content filtering policies: Enables your security team to track and regulate
access to websites based on content categories (such as adult content, high
bandwidth, legal liability, and leisure). Supported platforms:
Windows
Controlled folder access: Ransomware protection that allows only trusted apps to
access protected folders on Windows devices. Supported platforms:
Windows
Attack surface reduction rules: Reduces where and how your business might be
vulnerable to threats and attacks. Supported platforms:
Windows
Microsoft Intune:
Account protection policies: Protect identity and accounts on Windows devices.
Supported platforms:

--- Page 1973 of 2193 ---
Windows
Antivirus policies: Manage anti-virus settings on managed devices. Supported
platforms:
Windows and Configuration Manager on Windows.
macOS (the macOS anti-virus settings here aren't available in other policy types)
Linux
App Control for Business policies: Manage approved apps for Windows devices with
App Control for Business policies and Managed Installers. Supported platforms:
Windows
Attack surface reduction: Targets behavior typically used to infect computers, and
helps secure removable devices. Uses Windows Defender antivirus on Windows
devices. Supported platforms:
Windows and Configuration Manager on Windows.
Disk encryption policies: Manage built-in disk and folder-level encryption on Windows
and macOS devices. Supported platforms:
Windows
macOS
Endpoint detection and response policies: Provides advanced attack detection that's
nearly real-time and actionable. Requires integrating Microsoft Defender for Endpoint
with Intune. Supported platforms:
Windows and Configuration Manager on Windows.
macOS (the macOS anti-virus settings here aren't available in other policy types)
Linux
Firewall policies: Manage the built-in firewall on macOS and Windows devices.
Supported platforms:
Windows and Configuration Manager on Windows.
macOS
 Tip
Intune device profiles include the same settings that are available in the following
device policies:
Anti-virus device policy: The endpoint protection or device restriction device
profiles.
Disk encryption device policy: The endpoint protection device profile.
Firewall device policy: The endpoint protection device profile.
However, these device profiles also include unrelated settings that can complicate
the task of separately managing anti-virus, disk encryption, or firewall settings.

--- Page 1974 of 2193 ---
The rest of this article describes how to manage device protection policies in the Microsoft
Defender portal and the Microsoft Intune admin center.
Device policies in the Defender portal
In the Microsoft Defender portal at https://security.microsoft.com , go to Endpoints >
Configuration management > Device configuration. Or, to go directly to the Device
configuration page, use https://security.microsoft.com/policy-management .
You work with device policies on the Device configuration page as described in the following
subsections.
View existing device protection policies in the Defender portal
On the Windows tab of the Device configuration page at
https://security.microsoft.com/policy-management , the following information is shown:
Policy type sections:
Next generation protection: The built-in policy is named NGP Windows default
policy.
Firewall: The built-in policy is named Firewall Windows default policy.
For both policy types, the following properties are displayed in the lists policies:
Policy name
Order: Policies are applied to devices in the order on the page, and only one policy of
that type (Next generation protection or Firewall) is applied to a device. For more
information, see Understand policy order in Microsoft Defender for Business.
Created date
Last updated
Assigned devices: The number of devices that have the policy assigned. An assigned
device might not have the policy applied to the device yet.
Applied devices: The number of assigned devices that have the policy applied.

--- Page 1975 of 2193 ---

To view details about a device policy, select the policy from the list by clicking anywhere
in the row other that the check box next to the policy name. The details flyout that opens
contains the following information:
Description
Device status: The application status of assigned devices:
Succeeded: The number of assigned devices where the policy was successfully
applied.
Error: The number of assigned devices where the policy wasn't applied due to an
error.
Impacted devices:
The number of assigned devices.
The Name and Status of each device.
 Tip
To see details about other device policies without leaving the details flyout, use
Previous item and Next item at the top of the flyout.

--- Page 1976 of 2193 ---

Create device protection policies in the Defender portal
On the Windows tab of the Device configuration page at
https://security.microsoft.com/policy-management , do the following steps:
1. In the Next-generation protection or Firewall sections, select Add to start the new
policy wizard.
2. On the General information page, configure the following settings:
Policy name: Enter a unique, descriptive name.
Description: Enter an optional description.
Policy order: Accept the default policy order or change it. For more information, see
xxx.
3. On the Device groups page, do one of the following steps:
Select Use existing group to select one or more device groups to use in the
policy.
Select Create new group to create a new device group to use in the policy. For
instructions, see Create device groups in the Microsoft Defender portal (starting at
Step 4).

--- Page 1977 of 2193 ---
When you're finished on the Device groups page, select Next.
4. On the Configuration settings page, review or configure the policy settings. For details,
see the following articles:
Next-generation protection: Next-generation protection settings and options.
Firewall: Firewall settings you can configure.
When you're finished on the Configuration settings page, select Next.
5. On the Review your policy page, review your settings. You can select Edit in each section
to modify the settings within the section. Or you can select Back or the specific page in
the wizard.
When you're finished on the Review your policy page, select Create policy.
6. On the New policy created page, select Done.
Back on the Windows tab of the Device configuration page, the policy that you created is
available in the corresponding section (Next generation protection or Firewall).
Edit device protection policies in the Defender portal
On the Windows tab of the Device configuration page at
https://security.microsoft.com/policy-management , do one of the following steps:
Select the check box next to the policy name, and then select the Edit action that
appears.
Select the policy by clicking anywhere in the row other than the check box next to the
policy name. In the details flyout that opens, select Edit at the top of the flyout.
After you select Edit, the steps and options are basically the same as previously described in
the Create device protection policies in the Defender portal section. The main difference is the
policy settings are already configured.
You can change all settings in custom policies.
The default policies named NGP Windows default policy or Firewall Windows default
policy have the following issues:
General information page: You can't change the Policy name or Policy order values.
Device groups page: By default, the device group named All Devices is selected:
You can replace All devices by selecting Use existing group, and then selecting
one or more device groups.
To return to All Devices as the only selected device group in the policy, select
Add all devices.

--- Page 1978 of 2193 ---
Delete device protection policies in the Defender portal
 Tip
You can't delete the default policies named NGP Windows default policy or Firewall
Windows default policy.
On the Windows tab of the Device configuration page at
https://security.microsoft.com/policy-management , do one of the following steps:
Select the check box next to the policy name, and then select the Delete action that
appears.
Select the policy by clicking anywhere in the row other than the check box next to the
policy name. In the details flyout that opens, select Delete at the top of the flyout.
In the Delete policy dialog that opens, read the information, and then select Delete.
Back on the Windows tab of the Device configuration page, the policy that you deleted is no
longer available in the corresponding section (Next generation protection or Firewall).
Device policies in the Intune admin center
You manage device policies in the Intune admin center at https://intune.microsoft.com >
Endpoint security. Or, to go directly to the Overview page in Endpoint security, use
https://intune.microsoft.com/#view/Microsoft_Intune_Workflows/SecurityManagementMenu/~
/overview .
Create device policies in the Intune admin center
1. In the Intune admin center at https://intune.microsoft.com , go to Endpoint security >
Manage, and then select the device policy type that you want to configure:
Antivirus:
https://intune.microsoft.com/#view/Microsoft_Intune_Workflows/SecurityManageme
ntMenu/~/antivirus
Disk encryption:
https://intune.microsoft.com/#view/Microsoft_Intune_Workflows/SecurityManageme
ntMenu/~/diskencryption
Firewall:
https://intune.microsoft.com/#view/Microsoft_Intune_Workflows/SecurityManageme
ntMenu/~/firewall

--- Page 1979 of 2193 ---
Endpoint detection and response:
https://intune.microsoft.com/#view/Microsoft_Intune_Workflows/SecurityManageme
ntMenu/~/edr
App Control for Business:
https://intune.microsoft.com/#view/Microsoft_Intune_Workflows/SecurityManageme
ntMenu/~/appControl
Attack surface reduction:
https://intune.microsoft.com/#view/Microsoft_Intune_Workflows/SecurityManageme
ntMenu/~/asr
Account protection:
https://intune.microsoft.com/#view/Microsoft_Intune_Workflows/SecurityManageme
ntMenu/~/accountprotection
2. On the device policy page, select Create Policy.
3. On the Create a profile flyout that opens, configure the following settings:
Platform: The available values depend on the device policy type as previously
described.
Profile: The available values depend on the device policy type and Platform value as
described at the beginning of this article
When you're finished on the Create a profile flyout, select Create
4. The new policy wizard starts on the Create policy page that opens. On the Basics tab,
configure the following settings:
Basics tab: Configure the following settings:
Name: Enter a unique, descriptive name for the policy.
Description: Enter an optional description.
When you're finished on the Basics tab, select Next.
5. On the Configuration settings tab, expand each group of settings, and then configure the
settings.
When you're finished on the Configuration settings tab, select Next.
6. On the Scope tags tab, optionally select a scope tag to limit management of the category
to specific IT groups. For more information, see Use RBAC and scope tags for distributed
IT.
When you're finished on the Scope tags tab, select Next.

--- Page 1980 of 2193 ---
7. On the Assignments tab, select the groups that are included or excluded from the profile.
For more information on assigning profiles, see Assign user and device profiles.
When you're finished on the Scope tags tab, select Next.
8. On the Review + create tab, review the settings. You can select Back or a tab to go back
and modify the settings.
When you're finished Review + create tab, select Save.
Back on the device policy page, the new device category appears in the list.
Copy device policies in the Intune admin center
1. In the Intune admin center at https://intune.microsoft.com , go to Endpoint security >
Manage, and then select the device policy type that you want to configure:
Antivirus:
https://intune.microsoft.com/#view/Microsoft_Intune_Workflows/SecurityManageme
ntMenu/~/antivirus
Disk encryption:
https://intune.microsoft.com/#view/Microsoft_Intune_Workflows/SecurityManageme
ntMenu/~/diskencryption
Firewall:
https://intune.microsoft.com/#view/Microsoft_Intune_Workflows/SecurityManageme
ntMenu/~/firewall
Endpoint detection and response:
https://intune.microsoft.com/#view/Microsoft_Intune_Workflows/SecurityManageme
ntMenu/~/edr
App Control for Business:
https://intune.microsoft.com/#view/Microsoft_Intune_Workflows/SecurityManageme
ntMenu/~/appControl
Attack surface reduction:
https://intune.microsoft.com/#view/Microsoft_Intune_Workflows/SecurityManageme
ntMenu/~/asr
Account protection:
https://intune.microsoft.com/#view/Microsoft_Intune_Workflows/SecurityManageme
ntMenu/~/accountprotection
2. In the list of policies on the device policy page, select Context menu > Duplicate in
the row of the policy that you want to copy.
3. In the Duplicate policy flyout that opens, enter the following information:

--- Page 1981 of 2193 ---
New name: Enter a unique, descriptive name for the new copy of the policy.
New description: Enter a new optional description for the new copy of the policy.
When you're finished in the Duplicate policy flyout, select Save.
4. Back on the device policy page, select Refresh to see the new policy in the list.
Edit device policies in the Intune admin center
1. In the Intune admin center at https://intune.microsoft.com , go to Endpoint security >
Manage, and then select the device policy type that you want to configure:
Antivirus:
https://intune.microsoft.com/#view/Microsoft_Intune_Workflows/SecurityManageme
ntMenu/~/antivirus
Disk encryption:
https://intune.microsoft.com/#view/Microsoft_Intune_Workflows/SecurityManageme
ntMenu/~/diskencryption
Firewall:
https://intune.microsoft.com/#view/Microsoft_Intune_Workflows/SecurityManageme
ntMenu/~/firewall
Endpoint detection and response:
https://intune.microsoft.com/#view/Microsoft_Intune_Workflows/SecurityManageme
ntMenu/~/edr
App Control for Business:
https://intune.microsoft.com/#view/Microsoft_Intune_Workflows/SecurityManageme
ntMenu/~/appControl
Attack surface reduction:
https://intune.microsoft.com/#view/Microsoft_Intune_Workflows/SecurityManageme
ntMenu/~/asr
Account protection:
https://intune.microsoft.com/#view/Microsoft_Intune_Workflows/SecurityManageme
ntMenu/~/accountprotection
2. In the list of policies on the device policy page, select the policy that you want to edit by
clicking anywhere in the row other than Context menu.
3. In the Properties section of the policy details page that opens, select Edit in one of the
available subsections:
Basics
Assignments
Scope tags

--- Page 1982 of 2193 ---
Configuration settings
Selecting Edit opens an Edit policy page with corresponding tabs as described in Create
device policies in the Intune admin center (Step 4 or later). The tab that you start on
doesn't matter, because you can also access the other tabs by selecting Next or the tab.
When you're finished making updates, go to the Review tab of the Edit policy page, and
then select Save.
Delete device policies in the Intune admin center
1. In the Intune admin center at https://intune.microsoft.com , go to Endpoint security >
Manage, and then select the device policy type that you want to configure:
Antivirus:
https://intune.microsoft.com/#view/Microsoft_Intune_Workflows/SecurityManageme
ntMenu/~/antivirus
Disk encryption:
https://intune.microsoft.com/#view/Microsoft_Intune_Workflows/SecurityManageme
ntMenu/~/diskencryption
Firewall:
https://intune.microsoft.com/#view/Microsoft_Intune_Workflows/SecurityManageme
ntMenu/~/firewall
Endpoint detection and response:
https://intune.microsoft.com/#view/Microsoft_Intune_Workflows/SecurityManageme
ntMenu/~/edr
App Control for Business:
https://intune.microsoft.com/#view/Microsoft_Intune_Workflows/SecurityManageme
ntMenu/~/appControl
Attack surface reduction:
https://intune.microsoft.com/#view/Microsoft_Intune_Workflows/SecurityManageme
ntMenu/~/asr
Account protection:
https://intune.microsoft.com/#view/Microsoft_Intune_Workflows/SecurityManageme
ntMenu/~/accountprotection
2. In the list of policies on the device policy page, do one of the following steps:
Select Context menu > Delete in the row of the policy that you want to
delete.
Select the policy that you want to delete by clicking anywhere in the row other than
Context menu. On the policy details page that opens, select Delete.

--- Page 1983 of 2193 ---
3. In the Are you sure? confirmation dialog that appears, select OK.
On the device policy page, the policy is no longer listed.
Manage conflicts
Many of the device settings that you can manage with Endpoint security policies are also
available through other policy types in Intune. These other policy types include device
configuration policies and security baselines. Because you can manage settings through
different policy types or multiple policies of the same type, you need to identify and resolve
policy conflicts for devices that don't adhere to the configurations you expect.
Security baselines can set a non-default value for a setting to comply with the recommended
configuration addressed by the baseline.
Other policy types (for example, endpoint security policies) set a default value of Not
configured, which requires you to explicitly configure settings in the policy.
Regardless of the policy method, managing the same setting on the same device through
multiple policy types, or through multiple policies of the same type can result in conflicts.
If you encounter policy conflicts, see Troubleshooting policies and profiles in Microsoft Intune.
See also
Manage endpoint security in Microsoft Intune
Best practices for securing Microsoft 365 for business plans

--- Page 1984 of 2193 ---
Device management and application
management in Microsoft 365 Business
Premium
Applies to: ✅ Microsoft 365 Business Premium, ✅ Microsoft 365 for Campaigns
An important part of your security strategy in Microsoft 365 Business Premium is protecting
the computers, tablets, and phones that are used to access company data. Business Premium
includes Microsoft Intune Plan 1, a comprehensive device management solution that allows
you to enroll, monitor, and manage devices. For more information, see Microsoft Intune
overview.
Devices managed by Intune are typically company-owned devices, but they can also be
personal devices (also known as bring your own device or BYOD). In Microsoft 365 for
Campaigns, most devices are likely to be BYOD.
Intune provides two basic strategies for managing devices that access company data:
Mobile device management (MDM): The organization controls all aspects of the device.
After the device is enrolled in Intune, admins can install apps, allow or block enrollment
by platform, block personal devices, and more. If the device is ever lost or stolen, you can
remotely wipe the device. The enrolled device is said to be managed.
We always recommend MDM for company-owned devices. For instructions in this article,
see Mobile device management in Intune for device protection
Mobile application management (MAM): The user controls the device, but the
organization controls access to company data on the device. You need to create policies
that block users from enrolling their personal devices in MDM. Application management
policies prevent users from copying business data from Microsoft 365 Apps to personal
apps. If a device is ever lost or stolen, you can remotely remove all organization data from
managed apps. The device is said to be unmanaged.
You can use MDM or MAM for personal devices. For MAM instructions in this article, see
Mobile app management in Intune for data protection.
Based on the nature of devices in your organization, you might choose one or both methods to
protect access to data in your organization.
The rest of this article describes the recommended options for MDM and MAM in Business
Premium.

--- Page 1985 of 2193 ---
Mobile device management using Intune for
device protection
In Business Premium, we recommend enrolling company-owned devices in Microsoft Intune as
described in the following subsections.
Step 1: Configure device enrollment restrictions for Intune
You might need to block users from enrolling certain types of eligible devices in Intune. For
example, you intend to use MAM for personal iOS and Android phones, so you want to prevent
users from enrolling those devices in Intune.
For instructions, see Create device platform restrictions.
Step 2: Configure device enrollment prerequisites for Intune
For the device types that you intend to enroll in MDM, you need to take care of some
prerequisites:
Apple: Get an Apple MDM push certificate
Android: Connect your Intune account to your managed Google Play account
Windows: Set up automatic enrollment for Windows devices
Enterprise State Roaming gives users a unified experience across their Windows
devices by synchronizing and storing specific user settings. For more information, see
Enable Enterprise State Roaming in Microsoft Entra ID.
 Tip
To configure Microsoft Edge enterprise sync to synchronize Microsoft Edge data,
see Configure Microsoft Edge enterprise sync.
Configure Intune to automatically install Microsoft 365 Apps on Windows devices. For
instructions, see Add Microsoft 365 Apps to Windows 10/11 devices with Microsoft
Intune.
Windows Autopilot uses a supported version of Windows Semi-Annual Enterprise
Channel to set up PCs with business critical apps, policies, and features (for example,
BitLocker) before you give the PCs to users. Autopilot can also reset, repurpose, and
recover Windows devices. For more information, see Overview of Windows Autopilot.

--- Page 1986 of 2193 ---
Business Premium includes free upgrades to Windows 10 Pro or Windows 11 Pro from
the following versions of Windows:
Windows 7 Pro
Windows 8 Pro
Windows 8.1 Pro
For more information, see Upgrade Windows devices to Windows 10 or 11 Pro.
Step 3: Configure compliance policy settings in Intune
Compliance policy settings are organization-wide and determine how Intune treats devices
with no device compliance policies (also known as compliance policies) assigned. Possible
values are:
Mark devices with no compliance policy assigned as > Compliant: Devices are
considered compliant until verified as not compliant after a device compliance policy is
assigned. This value is the default.
Mark devices with no compliance policy assigned as > Not compliant: Devices are
considered not compliant until verified as compliant after a device compliance policy is
assigned.
Typically, we recommend the default value Compliant. But, if you're using device-based
Conditional Access policies as described in the next section, and you want to ensure that only
compliant devices are ever allowed to access company resources, use the value Mark devices
with no compliance policy assigned as > Not compliant.
For more information, see Compliance policy settings.
Step 4: Create device compliance policies in Intune
We recommend creating a device compliance policy (also known as a compliance policy) for
every type of device you plan on enrolling in MDM. The compliance policy for each device type
specifies the minimum configuration that allows access to company data. The policies aren't
enforced until a corresponding device-based Conditional Access policy is applied to the device.
Here are our recommendations:
Windows devices:
Compliance settings:
Device health: Set the following options to Require:
BitLocker
Secure Boot
Code integrity

--- Page 1987 of 2193 ---
System security:
Device security: Set the following options to Require:
Firewall
Trusted platform module (TPM)
Antivirus
Antispyware
Defender: Set the following options to Require:
Microsoft Defender Antimalware
Microsoft Defender Antimalware security intelligence up-to-date
Real-time protection
Actions for non-compliance:
Mark device noncompliant: Change the Schedule (days after noncompliance)
value from Immediately to 1.
Assignments: For Included groups, select Add all users.
Other device types: Select the following options where available:
Require a password to unlock the device.
Require device encryption.
Require code integrity.
For more information, see Create a compliance policy in Microsoft Intune.
Step 5: Create device-based Conditional Access policies
We recommend the following device-based Conditional Access policies for Intune:
Require MFA for Intune device enrollment
Block unknown or unsupported device platforms
Require approved client apps or an app protection policy
Require a compliant device, Microsoft Entra hybrid joined device, or MFA for all users
Step 6: Enroll devices in Intune
After you do the previous steps to prepare and configure Intune, now users can enroll their
devices. For instructions, see the following articles:
iOS/iPadOS: Set up personal iOS device for work or school
Android: Enroll device with Android work profile
Linux: Enroll Linux device in Intune
macOS: Enroll your macOS device using the Company Portal app
Windows: Enroll Windows 10/11 devices in Intune

--- Page 1988 of 2193 ---
More options for MDM
View and monitor device health in the Defender portal: In Defender for Business or
Intune in Business Premium, you can view device details, such as health state and
exposure level for all onboarded devices. You can also take actions on devices, such as
running an antivirus scan or starting an automated investigation. For more information,
see Manage devices in Microsoft Defender for Business and Review detected threats.
On managed devices, users can take the following steps to protect their devices:
Set active hours on Windows devices: Antivirus, anti-malware, and other threat
protection capabilities are automatically installed, configured, and regularly updated on
onboarded devices. Updates that require device restarts can be done after your working
hours as defined by the active hours setting on Windows devices. For more information,
Keep your PC up to date .
Mobile app management in Intune for data
protection
In Business Premium, mobile app management (MAM) is available to protect access to
company data on personal devices without the full device management of MDM. The following
subsections describe the requirements for configuring MAM.
Step 1: Configure device enrollment restrictions for MAM
Personal devices that you plan on protecting with MAM can't be enrolled in Intune (MDM). To
prevent specific device types from enrolling in MDM, see Create device platform restrictions.
Step 2: Deploy app protection policies in MAM
App protection policies (APP) enable MAM on iOS/iPadOS and Android devices without
requiring enrollment of the devices in Intune (MDM). For example:
Require a PIN to open Microsoft Outlook on the device.
Prevent saving company data locally on the device.
For more information, see How to create and assign app protection policies.
Our basic recommendations include:
Create policies for both iOS/iPadOS and Android devices.
Target policy to: Select Core Microsoft Apps (which includes Outlook).

--- Page 1989 of 2193 ---
Backup org data to iTunes and iCloud backups: Select Block.
Send org data to other apps: Select Policy managed apps.
Save copies of org data: Select Block.
Allow user to save copies to selected services: Select OneDrive and SharePoint.
Our recommendations for distinct security tiers are described in Data protection framework
using app protection policies.
More options for MAM
Multifactor authentication (MFA) and a supported authenticator app like the Microsoft
Authenticator app are required by default for all Business Premium accounts. For more
information, see Multifactor authentication for Microsoft 365.
Otherwise, the device owner is responsible for protecting and maintaining their own device in
MAM scenarios. They can take the following steps:
Turn on encryption and firewall protection. Disk encryption protects data when devices
are lost or stolen. Firewall protection helps protect devices from unwanted contact by
other computers on the internet or other networks. For more information, see Protect
unmanaged devices.
Make sure antivirus/antimalware software is installed and up to date: For more
information, see Stay protected with Windows Security .
Keep up with operating system and application updates: To learn more, see Keep your
PC up to date .
Next steps
Set up information protection capabilities
Protect users against phishing and other attacks in Microsoft 365 for business
Collaborate and share securely
Last updated on 01/08/2026

--- Page 1990 of 2193 ---
Device groups and Microsoft Intune
categories in Microsoft 365 Business
Premium
09/09/2025Applies to: ✅ Microsoft 365 Business Premium, ✅ Microsoft 365 for Campaigns
Microsoft 365 Business Premium includes device endpoint protection through Microsoft
Defender for Business and Microsoft Intune Plan 1. Device protection policies are applied to
devices through different types of device collections:
Device groups in Defender for Business: There are two types of device groups:
Dynamic device groups: You create dynamic device groups with one or more rules
that use available device properties to identify the members of the group (devices, not
users). During device enrollment or if the properties of the device change, the device is
automatically added to or removed from the group. For more information, see the
Dynamic device groups section later in this article.
Assigned device groups: You create and manually add or remove onboarded devices
to and from the device group.
Device categories in Intune: Require corresponding dynamic device groups in Microsoft
Entra. The rule condition uses the device category name, so all devices that have the
category assigned are automatically members of the dynamic device group.
The rest of this article explains device groups in Defender for Business, device categories in
Intune, and how to manage them.
Device groups in Defender for Business
Defender for Business in Business Premium contains the built-in device group named All
Devices assigned to the built-in device protection policies named NGP Windows default
policy and Firewall Windows default policy. This device group includes all devices that are
onboarded in Defender for Business.
You can also create custom device groups to use in the built-in device protection policies or in
custom protection policies. You can create device groups in the following locations:
In the Defender portal when you create or edit device protection policies at
https://security.microsoft.com/policy-management . You don't need to complete
creating or modifying the device protection policy to create new device groups.
In the Microsoft Entra admin center at
https://entra.microsoft.com/#view/Microsoft_AAD_IAM/GroupsManagementMenuBlade

--- Page 1991 of 2193 ---
.
 Tip
Device groups created in the Defender portal are available to view, modify, and
delete in the Microsoft Entra admin center.
Device groups created in the Microsoft Entra admin center aren't available in the
Defender portal unless you modify the Mail Nickname property using Microsoft
Graph PowerShell. For more information, see the Create device groups in the
Microsoft Entra admin center section later in this article.
The built-in device group named All Devices isn't available in the Microsoft Entra
admin center, and isn't available to use in custom device protection policies. All
Devices is available to use only in the built-in device protection policies named NGP
Windows default policy and Firewall Windows default policy.
Dynamic device groups
Dynamic device groups use one or more rules based on device properties (not user properties)
to identify the devices that belong to the group. A rule in a dynamic device group uses the
following syntax: '<Property>' '<Operator>' '<Value>':
Property is the device characteristic that you want to use as an identifier.
Operator is a comparison operator.
Value is the text or numeric value of the property.
For example, 'Device OS Type' 'equals' 'Windows'.
In the Defender portal, multiple rules in a dynamic device group use AND logic. A device must
match all of the specified rules to be included in the dynamic device group. In the Microsoft
Entra admin center, you can use a combination of AND and OR logic for multiple rules.
Creating dynamic device groups in the Defender portal is simplified but limited as compared to
creating dynamic device groups in the Microsoft Entra admin center. The differences are
summarized in the following table:
ﾉ Expand table

--- Page 1992 of 2193 ---
Defender portal Microsoft Entra
admin center
Properties A subset of available Microsoft Entra ID device properties. All available Microsoft
Entra ID device
properties.
Operators A subset of available Microsoft Entra ID operators, and All available Microsoft
limited operators for each property. For example, the Device Entra ID operators.
OS Type property is limited to the operator value In.
Values Mostly free text. The Device OS Type property is limited to Free text for all values.
the values Windows or Windows Server*.
Logical operator AND (not selectable) AND or OR (selectable
for multiple rules for each rule)
Details about dynamic device groups in the Defender portal vs. the Microsoft Entra admin
center are explained in the following subsections.
Dynamic device groups in the Defender portal
As you create or edit device protection policies in the Defender portal, the following dynamic
device group elements are available:
Property:
Device OS Type: One or both of the following values:
Windows
Windows Server*
Device Display name: Text.
Device Model: Text.
Device OS Version: Text.
Device Id: A valid Microsoft Entra device ID. For example, d4fe7726-5966-431c-b3b8-
cddc8fdb717d.
Operator:
Equals: The property value must match the specified value exactly.
Not Equals: The property value doesn't match the specified value.
Starts With: The beginning of the property value contains the specified value.
Not Starts With: The beginning of the property value doesn't contain the specified
value.
In: The property value is included in any of the specified values (multiple values).
Not In: The property value isn't included in any of the specified values.

--- Page 1993 of 2193 ---
The available operators in dynamic device groups in the Defender portal depend on the
property as described in the following table:
ﾉ Expand table
Property Equals Not Equals Starts With Not Starts With In Not In
Device OS type ✔
Device Display name ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔
Device Model ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔
Device OS Version ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔
Device Id ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔
Value: The text or numeric value of the property you selected, or the default value Any for
most properties. The Device OS Type property is limited to the values Windows and
Windows Server*.
To create dynamic device groups in the Defender portal, see the Create device groups in the
Microsoft Defender portal section.
* Protecting Windows Server operating systems require an extra license not included in
Defender for Business or Business Premium (for example, Microsoft Defender for Business
servers).
Device groups in the Microsoft Entra admin center
In the Microsoft Entra admin center, you can modify and remove dynamic or assigned device
groups while you create or modify device protection policies. For instructions, see the following
articles:
Remove device groups: Delete a group
Modify device groups:
Edit group settings
Dynamic device groups: You can modify the rules with more available device
properties, operators, and an available mixture of AND and OR logic for multiple rules.
For more information, see the following articles:
Update rules in existing dynamic membership groups.
Properties for device rules
Supported expression operators
Validate rules for dynamic membership groups in Microsoft Entra ID.
Assigned device groups: Add members.

--- Page 1994 of 2193 ---
To create device groups in the Microsoft Entra admin center, see the Create device groups in
the Microsoft Entra admin center section later in this article.
Create device groups in the Microsoft Defender portal
There's no direct location to create device groups in the Defender portal. Instead, you can
create device groups while you create or edit device protection policies on the Windows tab of
the Device configuration page. For more information about creating or editing device
protection policies, see Device protection policies in Microsoft 365 Business Premium.
1. In the Microsoft Defender portal at https://security.microsoft.com , go to Endpoints >
Configuration management > Device configuration. Or, to go directly to the Device
configuration page, use https://security.microsoft.com/policy-management .
2. On the Windows tab of the Device configuration page, do one of the following steps in
the Next-generation protection or Firewall sections:
Create a new policy: Select Add.
Edit an existing policy: Do one of the following steps:
Select a policy from the list by clicking on the check box next to the policy name,
and then select the Edit action that appears.
Select a policy from the list by clicking anywhere in the row other than the check
box next to the policy name. In the details flyout that opens, select Edit at the
top of the flyout.
3. On the General information page, review or modify the Policy name, Description, or
Policy order settings, and then select Next.
4. On the Device groups page, do the following steps:
a. Select Create new group.
b. On the Create new group page that opens, configure the following settings:
Group name: The unmodifiable prefix is MDE Windows. Enter a unique,
descriptive suffix for the device group name.
Description: Enter an optional description for the device group.
Membership type: Select one of the following values:
Dynamic group: Devices are automatically added and removed based on
rules.
Assigned group: You manually add and remove existing devices.
When you're finished on the Create new group page, select Next.

--- Page 1995 of 2193 ---
5. On the Targeted devices page, the available options depend on the Membership type
value you selected on the previous page:
Dynamic group: Configure one or more rules as described in the Dynamic device
groups in the Defender portal section earlier in this article:
Select Select Property. In the drop-down list that appears, select an available
property.
Select Select an operator. In the drop-down list that appears, select an available
operator.
The value control appears with the default value Any. Leave the value Any
selected, or click on Any, and in the dialog that appears, select or enter the value,
and then select Apply.
To add another rule, select Add filter and then repeat the previous steps.
Multiple rules use the AND logical operator (a device must match all of the
specified rules to be included in the dynamic device group).
 Tip
Typically, you don't want to use the same property more than once in one
dynamic device group that you create in the Defender portal. It's too easy to
create conflicting rules that devices can never meet.
To remove an existing complete rule, select next to the rule.
To remove a partial rule, select Delete next to the rule.
To clear all existing rules, select Clear all, and then select a property from the
Properties drop down list in the Select a filter dialog that appears.
Assigned group: Select one or more enrolled devices from the list. You can sort the
list of enrolled devices by clicking on an available column header:
Device name
Domain
Primary user
IP address
 Tip

--- Page 1996 of 2193 ---
You can't create assigned device groups unless there are enrolled devices to
select as members.
When you're finished on the Targeted devices page, select Create group.
6. If there are no errors, you return to the Device groups page where the device group you
created is listed on the page and is now selected in Use existing group.
You can take the following actions on the device groups listed on the Device groups
page:
⋮
Select > Edit to edit the device group.
⋮
Select > Group details to open a flyout that shows the devices that are included in
the device group.
Select Remove to remove the device group from the list. If you do this action, you
need to do one of the following steps before you can select Next to go to the next
page in the wizard:
Select Create new group to create another device group.
Select Use existing group to select one or more device groups to use in this
protection policy.
7. At this step in creating the device protection policy, you have the following options on
the Device groups page:
Select Next to continue creating or modifying the device protection policy as
described in Device protection in Microsoft 365 Business Premium (starting at Step
4).
Select Cancel to stop creating or modifying the device protection policy. The new
device group is available to select in new or existing device protection policies in the
Defender portal, and is available in the Microsoft Entra admin center.
Create device groups in the Microsoft Entra admin center
Although you can create dynamic and assigned device groups in the Microsoft Entra admin
center, these groups aren't initially available to select when you create or edit device protection
policies in the Defender portal.
Dynamic and assigned device groups in the Microsoft Entra admin center share the following
settings:
Group type: Security (default).
Microsoft Entra roles can be assigned to the group: No (default).

--- Page 1997 of 2193 ---
Specific settings for each device group type are described in the following list:
Dynamic device groups: Create a rule for a dynamic membership group:
Membership type: Dynamic Device (Step 4).
Assigned device groups: Create a basic group and add members:
Membership type: Assigned (default; Step 9).
Members: (Step 10): Select No members selected. On the Add members page that
opens, select the Devices tab to select the devices to add to the group.
After you create the device group, you need to set the Mail nickname property to the value
MdeDeviceConfiguration so the group is available to select when you create or edit device
protection policies in the Defender portal. You take this action in Microsoft Graph PowerShell
(you get an error if you try in the Microsoft Entra admin center). General instructions for
modifying groups in PowerShell are in Microsoft Entra version 2 cmdlets for group
management:
1. If you haven't already, install the Microsoft.Graph.Groups PowerShell module by running
the following command in Windows PowerShell:
PowerShell
Install-Module Microsoft.Graph
2. Connect to Microsoft.Graph.Groups PowerShell by running the following command:
PowerShell
Connect-MgGraph -Scopes "Group.ReadWrite.All"
For detailed syntax and parameter information, see Connect-MgGraph.
3. Replace <DisplayName> with the display name of the group, and then run the following
command to store the Id property value of the device group to the variable named $ID:
PowerShell
$ID = (Get-MgGroup -Filter "DisplayName eq '<DisplayName>'").Id
For example:
PowerShell

--- Page 1998 of 2193 ---
$ID = (Get-MgGroup -Filter "DisplayName eq 'Engineering Dynamic Device
Group'").Id
You use the $ID value in the next step.
For detailed syntax and parameter information, see Get-MgGroup.
4. Run the following command to change the MailNickname property value of the device
group to MdeDeviceConfiguration:
PowerShell
Update-MgGroup -GroupId $ID -MailNickname MdeDeviceConfiguration
For detailed syntax and parameter information, see Update-MgGroup.
Device categories in Intune
Device categories in Intune require an associated dynamic device group in Microsoft Entra.
After you create the device category in Intune, create a dynamic device group in the Microsoft
Entra admin center that uses the following rule: 'deviceCategory' equals
'<DeviceCategoryName>'. For more information, see Categorize devices into groups.
The steps are described in the following subsections.
Step 1: Create the device category in Intune
1. In the Microsoft Intune admin center at https://intune.microsoft.com , go to Devices >
Manage devices > Device categories. Or, to go directly to the Device categories page,
use
https://intune.microsoft.com/#view/Microsoft_Intune_DeviceSettings/DevicesMenu/~/dev
iceCategories .
2. On the Device categories page, select Create device category to start the new
category wizard.
3. On the Basics tab, enter the following information:
Name: Enter a unique, descriptive name for the category.
Description: Enter an optional description for the category.
When you're finished on the Basics tab, select Next.

--- Page 1999 of 2193 ---
4. On the Scope tags tab, optionally select a scope tag to limit management of the category
to specific IT groups. For more information, see Use RBAC and scope tags for distributed
IT.
When you're finished on the Scope tags tab, select Next.
5. On the Review + create tab, review the settings. You can select Previous to go back and
modify the settings.
When you're finished Review + create tab, select Create.
Back on the Device categories page, the new device category appears in the list.
 Tip
To delete an existing device category, select Context menu > Delete.
After you delete the device category, devices that had the category assigned have
the category value Unassigned.
To modify an existing device category, select the category from the list by clicking
anywhere in the row. On the Properties page that opens, select Edit in the Basics or
Scope tags sections.
If you change the name of the device category, be sure to update the dynamic
device group that refers to the category (the deviceCategory value that's used in the
rule).
Step 2: Create a dynamic device group in Microsoft Entra that
uses the Intune device category
1. In the Microsoft Entra admin center at https://entra.microsoft.com , go to Groups > All
groups. Or, to go directly to the All groups page, use
https://entra.microsoft.com/#view/Microsoft_AAD_IAM/GroupsManagementMenuBlade/
~/AllGroups/menuId/AllGroups .
2. On the All groups page, select New group.
3. On the New group page, configure or verify the following options:
Group type: Verify Security is selected.
Group name" Enter a unique, descriptive name for the group.

--- Page 2000 of 2193 ---
Group description: Enter an optional description for the group.
Microsoft Entra roles can be assigned to the group: Verify No is selected.
Membership type: Select Dynamic device.
Owners: Optionally, select No owners selected to add one or more group owners.
Dynamic device members: Select Add dynamic query. On the Configure rules tab
of the Dynamic membership rules page that opens, configure the following
settings:
Property: deviceCategory
Operator: Equals
Value: The category name you created in Step 1:.
Select Save.
Back on the New group page, select Create.
Back on the All groups page, the new dynamic device group appears in the list.
How users select categories on devices
 Tip
Admins can customize the Intune user experience to hide the category selection prompt
in the Company Portal apps or website. For more information, see Customizing the user
experience: Device categories.
After an admin creates categories, users have the following options to select a category on
their devices:
Company portal website on Windows, macOS, iOS, iPadOS, and Android devices:
1. Go to the Devices page of the Company Portal at
https://portal.manage.microsoft.com/devices , and then do the following steps:
a. If you haven't already, select the Tap here to tell us which device you're using or
add a new device banner. In the Which device are you using? dialog that opens,
select your device from the Your managed devices section, and then select
Select.
b. Back on the Devices page, select This device.
2. On the device properties page that opens, select the Category is unknown. Tap to
select now banner.

--- Page 2001 of 2193 ---
3. In the Choose the best category for this device dialog that opens, select an
available category, and then select Select.
Company Portal app on Windows devices:
1. If necessary, download and install the Company Portal app from the Microsoft Store
at https://apps.microsoft.com/detail/9wzdncrfj3pz .
2. Open the Company Portal app on the Windows device.
3. On the Choose the best category for this device page that opens, select a category
from the list, and then select Done.
After you choose a category, the device is automatically added to the corresponding dynamic
device group.
 Tip
Users can't change the category on their device. Only an admin can switch the device to a
different category as described in the next section.
How admins manage categories on devices
In the Microsoft Intune admin center at https://intune.microsoft.com , go to Devices > All
devices. Or, to go directly to the All devices page, use
https://intune.microsoft.com/#view/Microsoft_Intune_DeviceSettings/DevicesMenu/~/allDevice
s .
On the All devices page, admins can do the following category-related tasks:
View categories assigned to devices: if the Category column isn't shown, select
Columns > Categories.
You can also filter the results by selecting Add filters > Category, selecting one or more
categories, and then selecting Apply.
Change categories assigned to devices: Select a device entry from the list by clicking on
the Device name value. In the device details page that opens, select Manage >
Properties.
On the Properties page that opens, find the Device category property. Select a device
category or the value Unassigned from the drop-down list, and then select Save.

--- Page 2002 of 2193 ---
Overview of Basic Mobility and Security in
Microsoft 365 for business
09/09/2025Applies to: ✅ Microsoft 365 Business Basic, ✅ Microsoft 365 Business Standard
Basic Mobility and Security is a subset of Microsoft Intune in Microsoft 365 Business Basic and Microsoft
365 Business Standard (and other Microsoft 365/Office 365 subscriptions). Basic Mobility and Security is
a free mobile device management (MDM) solution that allows organizations to:
Manage and secure devices in Microsoft 365.
Control access to company resources (for example, email, calendar, contacts, and documents)
using supported apps.
 Tip
In contrast to MDM where the organization fully manages the device, mobile app management
(MAM) leaves control of the device with the user, but policies control access only to company
resources on the device. MAM is more suitable for personal devices (also known as bring your own
device or BYOD), while MDM is more suitable for company owned devices. For example, you can't
factory reset a device in MAM (which would delete personal data), but you can remove company
resources from the device.
Microsoft Intune supports both MDM and MAM device management strategies, and supports
more device platforms (for example, macOS and Linux). For a comparison of Basic Mobility and
Security and Microsoft Intune, see the Comparison of Basic Mobility and Security and Microsoft
Intune section later in this article.
The high-level steps to manage devices in Basic Mobility and Security are described in the following list:
1. An admin turns on Basic Mobility and Security in the organization and configures organization
settings. For instructions, see Set up Basic Mobility and Security.
2. An admin configures one or more policies in Basic Mobility and Security that specify required
device settings and access to device features. For instructions, see Configure policies in Basic
Mobility and Security.
3. Users enroll their devices in Basic Mobility and security, or admins enroll the devices before they're
given to users. Either way, enrollment happens on the device itself. For instructions, see Enroll your
device in Basic Mobility and Security.
4. After the devices are enrolled, users can access company resources using supported apps, and
admins can wipe devices and view details about devices, because the organization fully manages
the devices. For more information, see the following articles:
View device details in Basic Mobility and Security
Wipe devices in Basic Mobility and Security

--- Page 2003 of 2193 ---
Admins can also modify the settings in existing policies, and modify the organization settings.
Although you can't turn off Basic Mobility and Security in an organization, you can effectively disable it
and remove device management from devices. For instructions, see Turn off Basic Mobility and Security
enforcement.
The rest of this article describes the supported devices and capabilities in Basic Mobility and Security.
Supported device platforms in Basic Mobility and
Security
You can manage the following device platforms in Basic Mobility and Security:
iOS/iPadOS devices: For supported iOS and iPadOS version information, see Apple operating
systems supported in Microsoft Intune
Android devices, including Samsung Knox on Samsung mobile devices*: For specific Android,
Samsung Knox, and Android open source project device support information, see Android
operating systems supported in Microsoft Intune.
*Only Samsung Knox devices on Android version 9.0 or later support password settings
management in Basic Mobility and Security.
Windows 10 and Windows 11 devices: Both traditional PCs and Windows on ARM devices are
supported. For more information about supported versions of Windows, see Microsoft operating
systems supported in Microsoft Intune.
 Tip
Microsoft Intune supports other types of devices, including macOS and Linux computers. For more
information, see the Comparison of Basic Mobility and Security and Microsoft Intune section later
in this article.
Policy types in Basic Mobility and Security
There are two different types of policies in Basic Mobility and Security. Both control access to company
resources on supported devices platforms. The main difference is whether the user is prompted to
enroll the device:
Allow access policies: If a user tries to access company resources using a supported app on an
unenrolled device, the user is prompted to enroll the device in Basic Mobility and Security;
device enrollment starts automatically.
This type of policy corresponds to the Allow access (device enrollment required) selection in the
new policy wizard, and the New-DeviceConfigurationPolicy and New-DeviceConfigurationRule

--- Page 2004 of 2193 ---
cmdlets in Security & Compliance PowerShell.
Block access policies: If a user tries to access company resources using a supported app on an
unenrolled device, access is blocked. The user isn't prompted to enroll the device; they need to
start the device enrollment manually.
This type of policy corresponds to the Block access selection in the new policy wizard, and the
New-DeviceConditionalAccessPolicy and New-DeviceConditionalAccessRule cmdlets in Security
& Compliance PowerShell.
The following diagram shows what happens when a user tries to access company resources using
the Microsoft 365 app on an unenrolled device. The applicable policy in Basic Mobility and
Security is a block access policy, so the user is prompted to enroll the device before they can
access company resources in the app.

After the device is enrolled in Basic Mobility and Security, and the device meets any access requirement
settings in the applicable policy, the user can access company resources on the device using supported
apps as described in the next section.
 Tip
After you create a policy, you can't change it from allow access to block access. You need to create
a new policy with the same settings, and then delete the original policy.

--- Page 2005 of 2193 ---
Apps that prompt users to enroll in Basic Mobility and
Security
After an admin sets up Basic Mobility and Security and configures policies that identify users to enroll,
certain apps are able to prompt users to enroll their devices in Basic Mobility and Security before they
can access company resources in the app. These apps that support access control are described in the
following table:
ﾉ Expand table
App iOS/iPadOS Android phones Android tablets Windows
The built-in email app ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔<*>
The Microsoft 365 app ✔
OneDrive ✔ ✔ ✔
Excel ✔ ✔ ✔
Outlook ✔ ✔ ✔
PowerPoint ✔ ✔ ✔
Word ✔ ✔ ✔
<*> Requires extra Microsoft Entra P1 or P2 licenses. Launching the app in organizations with only
Microsoft Entra Free licenses (included in Business Basic and Business Standard) doesn't prompt
Windows users to enroll their devices in Basic Mobility and Security.
） Important
Users aren't prompted to enroll their device and aren't blocked from accessing resources if they
use a mobile web browser to access the following company resources:
Microsoft 365 SharePoint sites.
Documents in Microsoft 365 on the web.
Information in Outlook on the web (formerly known as Outlook Web App or OWA).
Policy settings in Basic Mobility and Security
For both allow access policies and block access policies in Basic Mobility and Security, the following
types of policy settings are available when you create or modify policies:
Access requirement settings: These settings are described in the Access requirement settings
section. If the device doesn't meet the setting configuration (for example, password, encryption, or
jail broken settings), users are prompted to update the device to continue to access company

--- Page 2006 of 2193 ---
resources. If they don't update the setting, they can't access company resources on the device
using supported apps.
The following diagram shows what happens when a user tries to access company resources using
the Office Mobile app on an enrolled device. The applicable policy requires a device password, but
the device doesn't have a password.

Configuration settings: These settings are described in the Configuration settings section. These
settings control access to features on the device (for example, not allowing screen captures on
supported devices) and are automatically configured on the device without user input.
For policy creation and management instructions, see Configure policies in Basic Mobility and Security.
 Tip
Although policies in Basic Mobility and Security support many settings, not all settings are
supported on all device platforms.
Polices in Basic Mobility and Security override mobile device mailbox polices in Exchange Online.
You configure these policies in the Exchange admin center at
https://admin.exchange.microsoft.com/#/mobiledevicemailboxpolicy or in Exchange Online
PowerShell using the *-MobileDeviceMailboxPolicy or *-ActiveSyncMailboxPolicy cmdlets. After a

--- Page 2007 of 2193 ---
device is enrolled in Basic Mobility and Security, any applicable mobile device mailbox policies are
ignored.
Access requirement settings
The settings in the following table are required on enrolled devices. Users must update their settings to
meet the requirements. Otherwise, they can't access company resources using supported apps.
These settings are available on the Access requirements page in the new policy wizard, in the Access
requirements section in the details flyout of the policy, or in Security & Compliance PowerShell.
 Tip
For Windows devices:
Supported settings on noncompliant Windows devices don't block users from accessing
Microsoft 365 resources.
In Allow access policies, the first use of Outlook for Windows (new Outlook) or the Mail
app to access a Microsoft 365 mailbox requires enrollment in Basic Mobility and security
only in organizations with Microsoft Entra P1 or P2 licenses (not included in Business Basic
or Business Standard).
Supported password settings apply to local accounts only, not to accounts in Active
Directory or Microsoft Entra ID.
ﾉ Expand table
Setting iOS/iPadOS Android Samsung Windows Comments
Knox
Require a password ✔ Selected by default in new
(PasswordRequired) policies. This setting must be
selected to configure any other
password settings.
Prevent simple passwords ✔ Selected by default in new
(iOS) (AllowSimplePassword) policies.
Require an alphanumeric ✔ ✔ The default value when you
password (iOS) select this setting in new
(PasswordMinComplexChars) policies is: Password must
include at least 4 character
sets. Valid values are 1 to 4.
Require minimum password ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ The default value when you
length (PasswordMinimumLength) select this setting in new
policies is: 4 characters. Valid
values are 4 to 14.

--- Page 2008 of 2193 ---
Setting iOS/iPadOS Android Samsung Windows Comments
Knox
Number of sign-in failures ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ The default value when you
before device is wiped select this setting in new
(MaxPasswordAttemptsBeforeWipe) policies is: 4 attempts. Valid
values are 4 to 11.
Lock devices if they are ✔ ✔ The default value when you
inactive for this many minutes select this setting in new
(PasswordTimeout) policies is: 4 minutes. Valid
values are 1 to 60. Note: This
setting is no longer supported
in Android and Samsung Knox.
Password expiration ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ The default value when you
(PasswordExpirationDays) select this setting in new
policies is: 4 days. Valid values
are 1 to 255.
Remember password history ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ The default value when you
and prevent reuse select this setting in new
(PasswordHistoryCount) policies is: Store up to 4
previous passwords. Valid
values are 1 to 24.
Require data encryption on ✔ ✔ In Samsung Knox, you can also
devices (Android, Samsung Knox) require encryption on storage
(PhoneMemoryEncrypted) cards.
Prevent jail broken ar rooted ✔ ✔ ✔ This setting is always selected
devices from connecting and you can't change it when
(AllowJailbroken) you create or modify policies
on the Policies tab of the Basic
Mobility and Security page. If
you create a block access
policy (which corresponds to
creating the policy using the
New-
DeviceConditionalAccessPolicy
and New-
DeviceConditionalAccessRule
cmdlets in Security &
Compliance PowerShell), you
can modify this setting in
PowerShell after the creation of
the policy. For more
information, see Use
PowerShell to create policies in
Basic Mobility and Security.
Require managing email profile ✔ Blocks access to Microsoft 365
(iOS - required for selective wipe) email using manually created
(RequireEmailProfile) email profiles. iOS/iPadOS
device users must delete

--- Page 2009 of 2193 ---
Setting iOS/iPadOS Android Samsung Windows Comments
Knox
manually created email profiles
before they can access their
email. After they delete the
profile, a new profile is
automatically created. For
instructions on how users can
get compliant, see Device
already has an email profile
installed.
Configuration settings
These settings are automatically configured on the device without user input.
These settings are available on the Configurations page in the new policy wizard, in the Configurations
section in the details flyout of the policy, or in Security & Compliance PowerShell.
ﾉ Expand table
Setting iOS/iPadOS Android Samsung Windows Comments
Knox
Require encrypted backup (iOS) ✔ iOS/iPadOS encrypted
(ForceEncryptedBackup) backup is required.
Block cloud backup (iOS ✔ Block iCloud Backup on
supervised) (AllowiCloudBackup) supervised iOS/iPadOS
devices .
Block cloud document ✔ Block iCloud Drive
synchronization (iOS supervised) synchronization on
(AllowiCloudDocSync) supervised iOS/iPadOS
devices .
Block My Photo Stream (iOS) ✔ Block iCloud Photos
(AllowiCloudPhotoSync) synchronization.
Block screen capture (iOS, ✔ ✔ Blocked when attempted.
Samsung Knox) (AllowScreenshot)
Block FaceTime (iOS supervised) ✔ Block access to FaceTime
(AllowVideoConferencing) on supervised iOS/iPadOS
devices .
Block sending diagnostic data ✔ ✔ ✔ Block sending diagnostic
from devices (iOS, Samsung and usage data.
Knox)
(AllowDiagnosticSubmission)

--- Page 2010 of 2193 ---
Setting iOS/iPadOS Android Samsung Windows Comments
Knox
Block access to application store ✔ ✔ Requires supervised
(iOS supervised, Samsung Knox) devices for iOS/iPadOS.
(AllowAppStore) App store icon is missing
on Android home screens,
disabled on supervised
iOS/iPadOS device home
screens.
Require password when ✔ Not selectable if Block
accessing application store (iOS) access to application store
(ForceAppStorePassword) is selected.
Block connection with ✔ The SD card is grayed out
removable storage (Samsung in device settings. Apps
Knox) (EnableRemovableStorage) installed on the SD card
can't run.
Block Bluetooth connection ✔ Technically, we can't disable
(Samsung Knox) BlueTooth as a setting in
(BluetoothEnabled) Android. Instead, we
disable all the transactions
that require BlueTooth:
Advanced Audio
Distribution
Audio/Video Remote
Control
Hands-free devices
Headsets
Phone Book Access
Serial Port
A small toast message
appears at the bottom of
the screen when users
attempt to connect to these
devices or services.
Exclusive policy settings in Security & Compliance PowerShell
The settings in the following table are available only on the New-DeviceConfigurationRule or Set-
DeviceConfigurationRule cmdlets (allow access policies) and New-DeviceConditionalAccessRule or
Set-DeviceConditionalAccessRule cmdlets (block access policies) in Security & Compliance PowerShell:
ﾉ Expand table

--- Page 2011 of 2193 ---
Setting iOS/iPadOS Android Samsung Windows Comments
Knox
AllowAssistantWhileLocked ✔ Block the use of Siri while
iOS/iPadOS devices are locked.
AllowConvenienceLogon ✔ Block sign in using other methods
(for example, fingerprints or facial
recognition).
AllowPassbookWhileLocked ✔ Block the use of Apple Wallet while
iOS/iPadOS devices are locked.
AllowVoiceAssistant ✔ Block the use of Siri on iOS/iPadOS
devices.
AllowVoiceDialing ✔ Block voice-activated telephone
dialing by Siri on iOS/iPadOS
devices.
AntiVirusSignatureStatus ✔
AntiVirusStatus ✔
AppsRating ✔ Specifies the most restrictive rating
for apps allowed on iOS/iPAadOS
devices. For details, see
AppsRating.
AutoUpdateStatus ✔ Specifies the required update
settings for devices. For details, see
AutoUpdateStatus.
CameraEnabled ✔ ✔ Disables the camera.
FirewallStatus ✔ Specifies the acceptable firewall
status on devices. The only
available value is blank or
Required.
MaxPasswordGracePeriod ✔ The time window in which users
can reset expired passwords on
iOS/iPadOS devices.
MoviesRating ✔ Specifies the most restrictive rating
for movies allowed on
iOS/iPAadOS devices. For details,
see MoviesRating.
PasswordQuality ✔ ✔ A numeric scale that indicates the
security and complexity of the
password. A higher value indicates
a more secure password.
RegionRatings ✔ Specifies the rating system
(country/region) to use for movie

--- Page 2012 of 2193 ---
Setting iOS/iPadOS Android Samsung Windows Comments
Knox
and television ratings with the
MoviesRating and TVShowsRating
parameters. For details, see
RegionRatings.
SmartScreenEnabled ✔
SystemSecurityTLS ✔ Specifies whether TLS encryption is
required on iOS/iPadOS devices.
TVShowsRating ✔ Specifies the most restrictive rating
for television shows allowed on
iOS/iPadOS devices. For details, see
TVShowsRating.
UserAccountControlStatus ✔ Specifies how UAC notifications are
shown on devices. For details, see
UserAccountControlStatus.
WLANEnabled ✔ Disables Wi-Fi on devices.
WorkFoldersSyncUrl ✔ Specifies the Work Folders URL on
a Windows Server that's used to
synchronize company resources on
devices. For more information
about Work Folders, see Work
Folders overview.
For information about configuring policies in PowerShell, see Use PowerShell to create policies in Basic
Mobility and Security.
 Tip
You can disable policies only in Security & Compliance PowerShell (the Status value of the policy is
Off on the Policies tab of the Basic Mobility and Security page). For instructions, see Use
PowerShell to modify device policies.
Privacy and security in Basic Mobility and Security
Microsoft Intune sends information to Microsoft 365 about the compliance status of each managed
device. You can generate reports that show whether managed devices in your organization are
compliant based on the applicable policies. To learn more about Microsoft's commitment to the privacy
and security, see the Microsoft Trust Center .

--- Page 2013 of 2193 ---
Comparison of Basic Mobility and Security and
Microsoft Intune
If you choose to upgrade the device protection capabilities in Basic Mobility and Security, the natural
options are:
Microsoft Defender for Business
Microsoft Intune
 Tip
After you purchase Microsoft Intune licenses, you can manage devices using both Intune and
Basic Mobility and Security. First, set up Basic Mobility and Security, then set up Intune. This
method allows you to choose Basic Mobility and Security or the more feature-rich Intune
solution.
Microsoft 365 Business Premium (which includes Defender for Business and Intune)
The following table compares the device protection features of Basic Mobility and Security and Intune.
For more information on Intune actions, see Microsoft Intune documentation.
ﾉ Expand table
Feature area Feature highlights Basic Mobility and Microsoft Intune
Security
Supported device Manage different platforms and major iOS/iPadOS iOS/iPadOS
platforms management mode variants. Android Android
Samsung Samsung
Knox Knox
Windows PCs Windows
PCs
macOS
Device compliance Set and manage security policies, like device Limited¹ ✔
level PIN lock and jailbreak detection.
Conditional access Prevent noncompliant devices from accessing Limited² ✔
based on device corporate email and data from the cloud.
compliance
Device configuration Configure device settings (for example, Limited³ ✔
disabling the camera)
Email profiles Create a native email profile on the device. ✔ ✔
Wi-Fi profiles Create a native Wi-Fi profile on the device. ✔

--- Page 2014 of 2193 ---
Feature area Feature highlights Basic Mobility and Microsoft Intune
Security
VPN profiles Create a native VPN profile on the device. ✔
Mobile application Control how apps access and share data on ✔
management (MAM) mobile devices. For example, restrict actions
like copy, cut, paste, and save as to apps
approved for corporate data only.
Mobile application Deploy your internal line-of-business apps ✔
deployment and from apps stores to users.
Managed browser Enable more secure web browsing using the ✔
Microsoft Edge app.
Zero touch enrollment Enroll large numbers of corporate-owned ✔
programs (Autopilot) devices, while simplifying user setup.
Remote device actions Send commands to devices over the internet.
Remove company Remove company resources and settings ✔ ✔
resources (retire) while leaving personal data.
Factory reset (full Reset a device to its factory settings. ✔ ✔
wipe)
Remote Windows ✔
Autopilot reset
BitLocker key recovery ✔
for Windows devices
Disable activation lock ✔
on Apple devices
Enable Lost mode on ✔
iOS/iPadOS devices
Fresh Start on ✔
Windows devices
Locate lost or stolen ✔
devices
PIN reset on Windows ✔
devices
Remote lock ✔
Remotely restart ✔
devices
Rename devices ✔
Reset or remove ✔
device passcodes

--- Page 2015 of 2193 ---
Feature area Feature highlights Basic Mobility and Microsoft Intune
Security
Run Microsoft ✔
Defender Antivirus
scans on Windows
devices
Send custom ✔
notifications on
iOS/iPadOS and
Android devices
Synchronize devices ✔
TeamViewer (remote ✔⁴
control)
¹ Limited on Android devices as previously described in the Access requirement settings section.
² Not supported on Windows PCs. Limited to controlling access to Exchange Online, SharePoint, and
Outlook.
³ Limited to settings previously described in the Configuration settings section. Intune settings are
described in Apply features and settings on your devices using device profiles in Microsoft Intune.
⁴ Purchased separately.
Basic Mobility and Security FAQ
Q: How can I get Basic Mobility and Security? I don't see it in the
Microsoft 365 admin center
A: Activate Basic Mobility and Security by going to the Basic Mobility and Security page at
https://compliance.microsoft.com/basicmobilityandsecurity .
Q: How can I get started with device management in Basic
Mobility and Security?
A: For instructions, see Set up Basic Mobility and Security in Microsoft 365 for business.
Q: I'm trying to set up Basic Mobility and Security but it seems
stuck. The Microsoft 365 Service Health has been showing
"provisioning" for a while. What can I do?

--- Page 2016 of 2193 ---
A: It might take some time to get the service ready for you. When provisioning is complete, you see the
Basic Mobility and Security page. If the status is still provisioning after 24 hours, contact Support so we
can help you.
Q: I'm running into issues when I try to enroll a device in Basic
Mobility and Security. What can I do?
A: Check the following items:
Verify the device isn't already enrolled in another mobile device management provider, such as
Microsoft Intune.
Verify the date and time on the device are correct.
Connect to a different Wi-Fi or cellular network on the device.
For Android or iOS/iPadOS devices, uninstall and reinstall the Intune Company Portal app on the
device.
Q: I'm having issues setting up Basic Mobility and Security on
iOS/iPadOS devices. What can I do?
A: Check the following items:
Verify you set up an APNs certificate. For more information, see Create an Apple Push Notification
service certificate for Apple devices.
On the iOS/iPadOS device, go to Settings > General > VPN & Device Management and verify a
Management Profile isn't already installed. If it is, remove it.
Device failed to enroll error: Verify the user signed in to Microsoft 365 has a license assigned that
includes an Exchange Online license.
Profile failed to install error: Try one of the following steps:
Verify Safari is the default browser on the device and that cookies aren't disabled.
Reboot the device, open <portal.manage.microsoft.com>, sign in with your Microsoft 365
account, and then attempt to install the profile manually.
Q: I'm having issues setting up Basic Mobility and Security on
Windows PCs. What can I do?
A: Check the following items:
Verify the custom domain for Microsoft 365 accounts is configured to work with Basic Mobility and
Security. For instructions, see Configure CNAME records in DNS for Basic Mobility and Security for
custom Microsoft 365 domains.
Unless you paid extra for Microsoft Entra ID P1 or P2, verify users select Enroll in Device
Management only instead of Connect.

--- Page 2017 of 2193 ---
Q: I'm having issues setting up Basic Mobility and Security on
Android devices. What can I do?
A: Check the following items:
Verify the device is running Android.
Verify Chrome is the default browser on the device and that it's up to date.
We couldn't enroll this device error: Verify the user signed in to Microsoft 365 has a license
assigned that includes an Exchange Online license.
Complete any actions in the Notification Area on the device.
Q: What's the difference between Intune and Basic Mobility and
Security?
A: The Intune service hosts Basic Mobility and Security as a free cloud-based solution for managing
devices in your organization. Basic Mobility and Security is a subset of Intune services. For a
comparison, see the Comparison of Basic Mobility and Security and Microsoft Intune section.
Q: How do policies work for Basic Mobility and Security? How do I
set them up? Disable them?
A: See the following articles:
Configure policies in Basic Mobility and Security
Turn off Basic Mobility and Security enforcement
Q: Can I switch from Exchange ActiveSync device management to
Basic Mobility and Security for Microsoft 365?
A: Polices in Basic Mobility and Security override mobile device mailbox polices in Exchange Online. You
create these policies in the Exchange admin center at
https://admin.exchange.microsoft.com/#/mobiledevicemailboxpolicy or in Exchange Online
PowerShell using the *-MobileDeviceMailboxPolicy or *-ActiveSyncMailboxPolicy cmdlets. After a
device is enrolled in Basic Mobility and Security, any applicable mobile device mailbox policies are
ignored.
Q: I set up Basic Mobility and Security but now I want to remove
it. What are the steps?
A: Although you can't completely turn off, disable, or unprovision Basic Mobility and Security in your
organization, you can remove the enforcement of Basic Mobility and Security on devices. For
instructions, see Turn off Basic Mobility and Security enforcement.

--- Page 2018 of 2193 ---
Set up Basic Mobility and Security in
Microsoft 365 for business
09/09/2025Applies to: ✅ Microsoft 365 Business Basic, ✅ Microsoft 365 Business Standard
Before you can use Basic Mobility and Security to manage devices and protect access to
company, you need to follow the procedures in this article to turn on and configure Basic
Mobility and Security in the organization.
For more information about Basic Mobility and Security, see Overview of Basic Mobility and
Security in Microsoft 365 for business.
What do you need to know before you begin?
You open the Basic Mobility and Security page at
https://compliance.microsoft.com/basicmobilityandsecurity .
To connect to Security & Compliance PowerShell, see Connect to Security & Compliance
PowerShell.
You need to be assigned permissions before you can do the procedures in this article. You
have the following options:
Microsoft Entra permissions: Membership in the Global Administrator* or Directory
Writers roles gives users the required permissions and permissions for other features
in Microsoft 365.
） Important
* Microsoft recommends that you use roles with the fewest permissions. Using
lower permissioned accounts helps improve security for your organization. Global
Administrator is a highly privileged role that should be limited to emergency
scenarios when you can't use an existing role.
You can't use a delegated admin account to manage Basic Mobility and Security. For
more information about delegated administration, see Partners: Offer delegated
administration .
Questions? See the Basic Mobility and Security FAQ.

--- Page 2019 of 2193 ---
Step 1: Enable Basic Mobility and Security in the
organization
 Tip
If Basic Mobility and Security is already enabled in your organization, Enable feature isn't
available on the Overview tab of the Basic Mobility and Security page, so you can skip
this step.
Use the following steps to enable Basic Mobility and Security in your organization:
1. On the Basic Mobility and Security page at
https://compliance.microsoft.com/basicmobilityandsecurity , verify the Overview tab is
selected.
2. On the Overview tab, select Enable feature.


--- Page 2020 of 2193 ---
3. In the confirmation dialog that opens, select OK. The following message is shown in the
dialog:
Activation request submitted for processing. Please reload the page in a few minutes.
4. After a few minutes, refresh the page in your browser.
After Basic Mobility and Security is enabled, the following changes happen on the Overview
tab of the Basic Mobility and Security page:
Enable feature on the Overview tab is replaced by Managed devices and Manage Apple
MDM Push Certificate.
The Policies and Organization Setting tabs are available.


--- Page 2021 of 2193 ---
Use PowerShell to enable Basic Mobility and Security in the
organization
If you'd rather use Security & Compliance PowerShell to enable Basic Mobility and security in
your organization, do the following steps:
1. Run the following one line commands to see if Basic Mobility and Security is already
enabled in the organization:
PowerShell
Write-Output -InputObject `r`n,"Device tenant policy",("-"*25); Get-
DeviceTenantPolicy | Format-Table Name; Write-Output -InputObject "Device
tenant rule",("-"*25); Get-DeviceTenantRule | Format-List
Name,ExclusionList,BlockUnsupportedDevices
2. If the previous command returns no results, run the following commands to enable Basic
Mobility and Security using the same values as if you enabled it on the Overview tab of
the Basic Mobility and Security page:
PowerShell
New-DeviceTenantPolicy
New-DeviceTenantRule -ExclusionList 00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000
 Tip
The value 00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000 means all users are included in
Basic Mobility and Security (no security groups specify exceptions from Basic
Mobility and Security). Or you can specify the GUID values of one or more security
groups separated by commas to exclude from Basic Mobility and Security/ For
instructions, see the Use PowerShell to configure organization settings in Basic
Mobility and Security section later in this article.
Likewise, you can set the BlockUnsupportedDevices parameter to the value $true
when you create the device tenant rule instead of setting it later.
For detailed syntax and parameter information, see New-DeviceTenantPolicy and New-
DeviceTenantRule.

--- Page 2022 of 2193 ---
Step 2: Configure CNAME records for custom
Microsoft 365 domains in Basic Mobility and
Security
 Tip
This step is required if users sign in using accounts in a custom Microsoft 365 domain (for
example, michelle@contoso.com). If users sign in using accounts in the Microsoft Online
Email Routing Address (MOERA) domain only (for example,
michelle@contoso.onmicrosoft.com), you can skip this step.
You need to add two CNAME records for Basic Mobility and Security at the DNS registrar for
your custom Microsoft 365 email domain. The basic syntax of the CNAME records is:
text
Hostname: EnterpriseEnrollment.company_domain.com
Points to address or value: EnterpriseEnrollment-s.manage.microsoft.us
Hostname: EnterpriseRegistration.company_domain.com
Points to address or value: EnterpriseRegistration.windows.net
For example:
text
Hostname: EnterpriseEnrollment.contoso.com
Points to address or value: EnterpriseEnrollment-s.manage.microsoft.us
Hostname: EnterpriseRegistration.contoso.com
Points to address or value: EnterpriseRegistration.windows.net
 Tip
Need help with setting up the CNAME records? We provide instructions to create CNAME
records for different Microsoft 365 services at many domain registrars. You can use these
instructions as a starting point to create the CNAME records for Basic Mobility and
Security. For more information, see Add DNS records to connect your domain.
If you're unfamiliar with DNS configuration, contact your domain registrar and ask for
help.

--- Page 2023 of 2193 ---
After you add the CNAME records, users who sign in on Windows devices using email
addresses in the custom Microsoft 365 domain are redirected to enroll in Basic Mobility and
Security.
Step 3: Create an Apple Push Notification service
certificate for Apple devices
 Tip
If you don't plan on using Basic Mobility and Security to manage iOS/iPadOS devices, you
can skip this step.
Basic Mobility and Security requires an Apple Push Notification service (APNs) certificate to
manage iOS/iPadOS devices. Use the following steps to create an APNs certificate:
1. Do either of the following steps:
On the Overview tab of the Basic Mobility and Security page at
https://compliance.microsoft.com/basicmobilityandsecurity , select Manage Apple
MDM Push Certificate to open the Configure MDM Push Certificate page. Or, use
the direct link
https://portal.azure.com/#view/Microsoft_Intune_Enrollment/APNSCertificateUpload
Blade .
Go to the iOS/iPadOS | Enrollment page of the Intune admin center at
https://intune.microsoft.com/#view/Microsoft_Intune_DeviceSettings/DevicesIosMen
u/~/iosEnrollment . In the Prerequisites section, select Apple MDM Push
Certificate to open the Configure MDM Push Certificate flyout.
2. On the Configure MDM Push Certificate page or flyout, do the displayed steps to
configure the APNs certificate. For detailed instructions, start at Step 1: Grant Microsoft
permission to send user and device information to Apple.
The Apple MDM Push certificate is valid for 365 days (with a 30-day grace period to renew
after it expires). You need to renew the certificate every year to maintain Apple device
management. For instructions, see Renew Apple MDM push certificate.
Step 4: Configure organization settings in Basic Mobility and
Security

--- Page 2024 of 2193 ---
The Organization Setting tab on the Basic Mobility and Security page at
https://compliance.microsoft.com/basicmobilityandsecurity contains the following settings
that you need to consider:
Access restriction for unsupported MDM device: Prevents users from accessing
Microsoft 365 email on devices that Basic Mobility and Security doesn't support. For more
information about supported devices, see Supported device platforms in Basic Mobility
and Security.
After you expand this section, the following values are available:
Allow access (device enrollment is required). This value is the default.
Block access: We recommend this value to help secure your organization.
Unsupported devices aren't allowed to access Microsoft 365 email on the device. After
you select this value, the tab automatically refreshes and both sections on the page are
collapsed. Expand this section to see the value you selected.

Security groups excluded from access control: Use this setting to exclude members of
the specified security groups from Basic Mobility and Security. For example:
Specific, temporary exceptions for known, noncompliant devices.
You no longer want to use Basic Mobility and Security in your organization (specify one
or more groups that contain all users in your organization).
The following security group types are supported:

--- Page 2025 of 2193 ---
User groups: To create user security groups in the Microsoft 365 admin center, see
Create, edit, or delete a security group
Business Basic and Business Standard include Microsoft Entra Free, which supports
creating assigned user groups (not dynamic user groups), although the built-in All
Users dynamic user group is available. To create assigned user groups in the Microsoft
Entra admin center, see Create a basic group and add members. Use the following
settings:
Group type: Security (default).
Microsoft Entra roles can be assigned to the group: No (default).
Members: (Step 10): Select No members selected. On the Add members page that
opens, select the Users tab to select the users to add to the group.
Assigned device groups: Similarly, Microsoft Entra Free supports creating assigned
device groups (not dynamic device groups). To create assigned device groups in the
Microsoft Entra admin center, see Create a basic group and add members. Use the
following settings:
Group type: Security (default).
Microsoft Entra roles can be assigned to the group: No (default).
Members: (Step 10): Select No members selected. On the Add members page that
opens, select the Devices tab to select the devices to add to the group.
After you expand this section, start typing the name of the group in the box, and then
select the group when it appears. The tab automatically refreshes and the section
collapses. Expand the section to see the group you selected below the box.
To remove a selected group, select on the entry. The tab automatically refreshes and
the section collapses. Expand the section to see the group you removed is no longer
below the box.
Repeat these steps as many times as necessary.
Use PowerShell to configure organization settings in Basic
Mobility and Security
If you'd rather use Security & Compliance PowerShell to configure organization setting in Basic
Mobility and Security in your organization, do the following steps:
1. Run the following command to see the current status of the settings:
PowerShell
Get-DeviceTenantRule | Format-List BlockUnsupportedDevices,ExclusionList

--- Page 2026 of 2193 ---
If the current values of ExclusionList are truncated, run the following command to see
them all:
PowerShell
Get-DeviceTenantRule | Select-Object -ExpandProperty ExclusionList
2. To configure the organization settings, use the following syntax:
PowerShell
Set-DeviceTenantPolicy [-BlockUnsupportedDevices <$true | $false>] [-
ExclusionList
"SecurityGroupGUID1","SecurityGroupGUID2",..."SecurityGroupGUIDN"]
BlockUnsupportedDevices: Corresponds to the Access restriction for unsupported
MDM device setting.
$true = Block Access
$false = Allow access (device enrollment is required) (default)
ExclusionList: Corresponds to the Security groups excluded from access control
setting. Specify one or more security groups separated with commas. You identify
groups by GUID value:
The value 00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000 means no security groups are
excluded (default).
To find the GUID values of available security groups, use the following
procedures:
a. If necessary, install the Microsoft Graph PowerShell module in PowerShell by
running the following command:
PowerShell
Install-Module -Name Microsoft.Graph -Scope CurrentUser
Answer yes to any directives about installing the NuGet provider or installing
from the PSGallery.
b. Connect to Microsoft.Graph.Groups PowerShell by running the following
command:
PowerShell

--- Page 2027 of 2193 ---
Connect-MgGraph -Scopes "Group.ReadWrite.All"
For detailed syntax and parameter information, see Connect-MgGraph.
c. Run the following command:
PowerShell
Get-MgGroup
Use the DisplayName value to find and copy the Id value to use.
 Tip
You might need to decrease the font size in the PowerShell window and
run the command again to clearly see all of the values. For example, click
in the window and use the scroll wheel on your mouse to scroll down,
and then run the command again.
You can't use Microsoft 365 Groups (the GroupTypes property value is
Unified).
Values that you specify for the ExclusionList parameter overwrite existing
values. Refer back to Step 1 to see how to view the complete list of
security groups.
For detailed syntax and parameter information, see Get-MgGroup.
This example configures the following organization settings:
Block access for unsupported devices.
Exclude the specified security groups from Basic Mobility and Security.
PowerShell
Set-DeviceTenantPolicy -BlockUnsupportedDevices $true -ExclusionList
"6010e907-3193-4a6f-b94c-a4c24b1398cc","0be37e4a-8f43-4b9f-ab7f-74659816067a"
For detailed syntax and parameter information, see Set-DeviceTenantPolicy.
Step 5: Create device security policies

--- Page 2028 of 2193 ---
For instructions, see Configure policies in Basic Mobility and Security.
Next steps
After you create at least one policy in Basic Mobility and Security, users identified in the
policies receive enrollment messages the next time they sign into their device using a Microsoft
365 ID or attempt to access company data using a supported application.
Users must complete the enrollment and activation steps before they can access Microsoft 365
email and documents. For more information, see Enroll your mobile device using Basic Mobility
and Security.
 Tip
If a user's preferred language isn't available in the device enrollment process, the user
might receive the notification and steps in a different language. Currently, not all
supported languages in Microsoft 365 are available for the enrollment process on mobile
devices.

--- Page 2029 of 2193 ---
Configure policies in Basic Mobility and
Security
09/09/2025Applies to: ✅ Microsoft 365 Business Basic, ✅ Microsoft 365 Business Standard
After an admin sets up Basic Mobility and Security in the organization as described in Set up
Basic Mobility and Security in Microsoft 365 for business, an admin needs to configure policies
that are applied to devices.
For supported devices and policy settings, see Policy settings in Basic Mobility and Security.
This article described how to create, view, modify, and remove device security policies in Basic
Mobility and Security.
For more information about Basic Mobility and Security, see Overview of Basic Mobility and
Security in Microsoft 365 for business.
You can use Basic Mobility and Security to create device policies that help protect your
organization information on Microsoft 365 from unauthorized access. You can apply policies to
supported device in your organization where the user has an applicable Microsoft 365 license
and enrolled the device in Basic Mobility and Security.
What do you need to know before you begin?
You open the Basic Mobility and Security page at
https://compliance.microsoft.com/basicmobilityandsecurity .
To connect to Security & Compliance PowerShell, see Connect to Security & Compliance
PowerShell.
Before you deploy any policies in Basic Mobility and Security, inform users about the
potential results of enrolling their devices. Depending on how you set up policies,
noncompliant devices can be negatively affected. For example:
Blocking access to Microsoft 365 data.
Blocking installed apps.
Blocking access to photos and personal information on the device.
Deleting data from the device.
Polices in Basic Mobility and Security override mobile device mailbox polices in Exchange
Online (configured in the Exchange admin center at
https://admin.exchange.microsoft.com/#/mobiledevicemailboxpolicy or in Exchange
Online PowerShell using the *-MobileDeviceMailboxPolicy or *-ActiveSyncMailboxPolicy

--- Page 2030 of 2193 ---
cmdlets). After a device is enrolled in Basic Mobility and Security, any mobile device
mailbox policy that applies to the device is ignored.
You need to be assigned permissions before you can do the procedures in this article. You
have the following options:
Microsoft Entra permissions: Membership in the Global Administrator* or Compliance
Administrator roles gives users the required permissions and permissions for other
features in Microsoft 365.
） Important
* Microsoft recommends that you use roles with the fewest permissions. Using
lower permissioned accounts helps improve security for your organization. Global
Administrator is a highly privileged role that should be limited to emergency
scenarios when you can't use an existing role.
For information about what happens when you remove users from groups that
assign policies, see the What happens when you delete a policy or remove a
user from a policy? section later in this article.
You can't use a delegated admin account to manage Basic Mobility and Security. For
more information about delegated administration, see Partners: Offer delegated
administration .
Questions? See the Basic Mobility and Security FAQ.
Create policies in Basic Mobility and Security
By default, there are no policies in Basic Mobility and Security.
To create a policy, do the following steps.
1. On the Basic Mobility and Security page at
https://compliance.microsoft.com/basicmobilityandsecurity , select the Policies tab.
2. On the Policies tab, select Create to start the new policy wizard.
3. On the Policy name page, configure the following settings:
Name: Enter a unique, descriptive name for the policy. You can't change the name
of the policy after you create it.
Description: Enter an optional description for the policy.

--- Page 2031 of 2193 ---
When you're finished on the Policy name page, select Next.
4. On the Access requirements page, configure the following settings:
Configure the device access requirements. The available settings are described in
the Access requirements section of the table at Policy settings in Basic Mobility and
Security.
If a device doesn't meet the requirements above, then...: Select one of the
following values:
Allow access (device enrollment is required): This value is the default. If a user
tries to access company resources using a supported app on an unenrolled
device, access is blocked. The user is prompted to enroll the device; device
enrollment starts automatically.
Block access: If a user tries to access company resources using a supported app
on an unenrolled device, the user isn't prompted to enroll the device; they need
to start the device enrollment manually.
７ Note
You can't change this setting after you create the policy.
This setting controls the cmdlets in Security & Compliance PowerShell that
you use to manage the policies. For more information, see the Manage
policies in Security & Compliance PowerShell section later in this article.
When you're finished on the Access requirements page, select Next.
5. On the Configurations page, configure the available settings. The settings are described
in the Configurations section of the table at Policy settings in Basic Mobility and Security.
When you're finished on the Configurations page, select Next.
6. On the Deployment page, configure one of the following options:
We'll save this policy, but it won't be applied to any devices in your organization:
This value is the default. The policy is saved but not applied to any devices. You can
apply the policy to one or more security groups later.
Select one or more security groups that contain the people you want to apply this
policy to:
） Important

--- Page 2032 of 2193 ---
We recommend that you apply a new policy to a few test users (a designated
test group with a few designated members). Verify that the policy works as you
expect before you deploy it to your organization.
After you expand this section, start typing the name of the group in the box, and
then select the group when it appears. The selected group appears below the box.
To remove a selected group, select on the entry.
Repeat these steps as many times as necessary.
The following security group types are supported:
User groups: To create user security groups in the Microsoft 365 admin center,
see Create, edit, or delete a security group.
Business Basic and Business Standard include Microsoft Entra Free, which
supports creating assigned user groups (not dynamic user groups), although the
built-in All Users dynamic user group is available. To create assigned user groups
in the Microsoft Entra admin center, see Create a basic group and add members.
Use the following settings:
Group type: Security (default).
Microsoft Entra roles can be assigned to the group: No (default).
Members: (Step 10): Select No members selected. On the Add members page
that opens, select the Users tab to select the users to add to the group.
Assigned device groups: Similarly, Microsoft Entra Free supports creating
assigned device groups (not dynamic device groups). To create assigned device
groups in the Microsoft Entra admin center, see Create a basic group and add
members. Use the following settings:
Group type: Security (default).
Microsoft Entra roles can be assigned to the group: No (default).
Members: (Step 10): Select No members selected. On the Add members page
that opens, select the Devices tab to select the devices to add to the group.
When you're finished on the Deployment page, select Next.
7. On the Review page, review your settings. You can select Edit in each section to modify
the settings within the section. Or you can select Back or the specific page in the wizard.
When you're finished on the Review page, select Submit.
8. On the Basic mobility and security policy created page, you can select the links to view
the policy and learn more about Basic Mobility and Security policies.

--- Page 2033 of 2193 ---
When you're finished on the Basic mobility and security policy created page, select
Done.
Back on the Policies tab of the Basic Mobility and Security page, the new policy is listed.
The Status value is Turning on... for a few minutes. When you refresh the page, the Status
value is On.

The policy is pushed to the affected users the next time they sign in to Microsoft 365 on their
device.
After you deploy the policy, if the user never had a Basic Mobility and Security policy applied to
their device, they get a notification to enroll and activate Basic Mobility and Security on their
device. For more information, see Enroll your mobile device using Basic Mobility and Security.
Until they complete the enrollment in Basic Mobility and Security, access to email, OneDrive,
and other services in Microsoft 365 is restricted. After they complete enrollment, they have
access to Microsoft 365 services and the policy is applied to their device.
 Tip
An unmodifiable priority value is assigned to each policy based on the order it was
created in. Older policies have a higher priority (a lower number value). On the Policies tab
of the Basic Mobility and Security page, policies are shown in the order they were created
and are applied.
If a policy intentionally or unintentionally applies to the same user based on their group
memberships, the first (highest priority) applicable policy is applied to the user, and no
more policies are applied (there's no combining or merging of settings from different
policies). To avoid confusion and unintended application of policies, use the following
guidelines:

--- Page 2034 of 2193 ---
Use unambiguous groups to assign policies. Configure any global exceptions as
required.
Use groups with fewer users in higher priority policies, and groups with more users
in lower priority policies.
Configure higher priority policies to have stricter or more specialized settings than
lower priority policies.
View policies in Basic Mobility and Security
On the Policies tab of the Basic Mobility and Security page at
https://compliance.microsoft.com/basicmobilityandsecurity , the following properties are
displayed in the list of policies:
Name
Status
Last modified time
To change the list of policies from normal to compact spacing, select Change list spacing to
compact or normal, and then select Compact list.
Use the Search box and a corresponding value to find specific policies.
To see details about a policy, select the policy by clicking anywhere in the row other than the
check box next to the name to open the details flyout for the policy.
 Tip
To see details about other policies without leaving the details flyout, use Previous
item and Next item at the top of the flyout.

--- Page 2036 of 2193 ---

Modify policies in Basic Mobility and Security
On the Policies tab of the Basic Mobility and Security page at
https://compliance.microsoft.com/basicmobilityandsecurity , select a policy by clicking
anywhere in the row other than the check box next to the name to open the details flyout for
the policy.
The available sections in the details flyout correspond to the pages in the wizard when you
created the policy:
Description
Access requirements
Configurations
Deployment
Select the Edit link in the corresponding section to open another flyout to edit the available
settings. When you're finished, select Save to return to the policy details flyout, and then select
Close.
 Tip
You can't change the Name or If a device doesn't meet the requirements above, then...
values on existing policies.
Remove policies in Basic Mobility and Security
） Important

--- Page 2037 of 2193 ---
For information about what happens when you remove assigned policies, see the What
happens when you delete a policy or remove a user from a policy? section later in this
article.
You can't remove the last policy in the organization. The policy remains with the Status
value Deleting.... To complete the deletion of the last policy, create at least one other
policy.
1. On the Policies tab of the Basic Mobility and Security page at
https://compliance.microsoft.com/basicmobilityandsecurity , select one or more policies
by selecting the check box next to the name.
2. Select More actions > Delete selected policies.
3. Select Yes in the warning dialog that opens.
Back on the Policies tab of the Basic Mobility and Security page, the Status value of the policy
changes to Deleting... for a few minutes. Eventually, after you select **Refresh, the policy is
no longer listed.
Manage policies in Security & Compliance
PowerShell
In Security & Compliance PowerShell, the basic elements of a policy in Basic Mobility and
Security are:
The device rule: Specifies the policy settings and the security groups that the policy
applies to.
The device policy: Required by the device rule. You can set the name, optional comments,
and enable or disable the policy and the associated rule.
The difference between these two elements isn't obvious when you manage policies on the
Policies tab of the Basic Mobility and Security page:
When you create a policy on the Policies tab of the Basic Mobility and Security page,
you're actually creating a device policy and the associated device rule at the same time.
The name of the policy (for example, Contoso Engineering) is used in the name of the rule
(for example, Contoso Engineering{2b18}).
When you remove a policy on the Policies tab of the Basic Mobility and Security page,
the device policy and the associated device rule are removed at the same time.

--- Page 2038 of 2193 ---
In Security & Compliance PowerShell, the difference between device policies and device rules is
apparent:
In PowerShell, you create the device policy first, then you create the device rule that
specifies the device policy (creating the rule requires an available policy).
In PowerShell, you specify the name of the device policy when you create it. When you
create the device rule, you identify the policy that the rule applies to, and the name of the
policy (for example, Contoso Engineering) is used in the name of the rule (for example,
Contoso Engineering{2b18}). You can't change the name of the device policy after you
create it.
When you remove a device policy from PowerShell, the associated device rule is
automatically removed after a few minutes. If you remove the device rule first, the
associated device policy isn't automatically removed.
The cmdlets that you use to manage device policies and device rules depend on what you want
for devices that don't meet the Access requirements settings described in the table at Policy
settings in Basic Mobility and Security:
Allow access: Use the *-DeviceConfigurationPolicy and *-DeviceConfigurationRule
cmdlets. These policies are made of device configuration policies and device configuration
rules.
Block access: Use the *-DeviceConditionalAccessPolicy and *-
DeviceConditionalAccessRule cmdlets. These policies are made of device conditional
access policies and device conditional access rules.
The *-DeviceConfigurationPolicy and *-DeviceConditionalAccessPolicy cmdlets contain the
same available settings.
The *-DeviceConfigurationRule and *-DeviceConditionalAccessRule cmdlets differ by one
setting: the AllowJailbroken parameter is available only on the New-
DeviceConditionalAccessPolicy and Set-DeviceConditionalAccessPolicy cmdlets.
 Tip
The Get-DevicePolicy cmdlet returns results for both types of device policies (device
configuration policies and device conditional access policies).
Use the *_DeviceTenantPolicy and *-DeviceTenantRule cmdlets to manage the
organization settings for Basic Mobility and Security. For more information, see Use
PowerShell to configure organization settings in Basic Mobility and Security.

--- Page 2039 of 2193 ---
Use PowerShell to create policies in Basic Mobility and
Security
Creating a policy in Basic Mobility and Security using Security & Compliance PowerShell is a
two-step process:
1. Create the device policy.
2. Create the device rule that specifies the device policy that the rule applies to.
The only differences in default values of policies created on the Policies tab of the Basic
Mobility and security page vs. device rules created in PowerShell are:
PasswordRequired is $false by default in PowerShell.
AllowSimplePassword is $false by default in PowerShell.
Step 1: Use PowerShell to create a device policy
In Security & Compliance PowerShell, use the syntax of one of the following commands to
create a device policy:
Allow access:
PowerShell
New-DeviceConfigurationPolicy -Name "<PolicyName>" [-Comment "
<OptionalComment>"] [-Enabled <$true | false>]
Block access:
PowerShell
New-DeviceConditionalAccessPolicy -Name "<PolicyName>" [-Comment "
<OptionalComment>"] [-Enabled <$true | false>]
Notes:
You can't change the name of the policy after you create it.
The Enabled parameter with the value $false allows you to create the policy disabled
(the Status value of the policy is Off on the Policies tab of the Basic Mobility and
Security page). If you don't use this parameter or you specify the value $true, the policy
is enabled (the Status value is On) You can also disable the policy after you create it.
You can't change the device policy type (device configuration policy or device conditional
access policy) after you create it.

--- Page 2040 of 2193 ---
This example creates a new device configuration policy named Contoso Engineering with the
specified optional comment:
PowerShell
New-DeviceConfigurationPolicy -Name "Contoso Engineering" -Comment "Policy with
more restrictive settings."
For detailed syntax and parameter information, see New-DeviceConfigurationPolicy or New-
DeviceConditionalAccessPolicy.
Step 2: Use PowerShell to create a device rule
In Security & Compliance PowerShell, use the syntax of one of the following commands to
create a device rule:
Allow access:
PowerShell
New-DeviceConfigurationRule -Policy "<DeviceConfigurationPolicyName>" -
TargetGroups
"SecurityGroupGUID1","SecurityGroupGUID2",..."SecurityGroupGUIDN" [<Access
Requirement settings>] [Configuration settings] [<PowerShell exclusive
settings>]
Block access:
PowerShell
New-DeviceConditionalAccessRule -Policy "<DeviceConfigurationPolicyName>" -
TargetGroups
"SecurityGroupGUID1","SecurityGroupGUID2",..."SecurityGroupGUIDN" [<Access
Requirement settings>] [Configuration settings] [<PowerShell exclusive
settings>]
Notes:
Policy: Use the name of the device policy that you created in the previous step. After you
create the rule, you can't associate a different device policy.
TargetGroups: Specify one or more security groups that the policy applies to (separate
multiple values with commas). You identify groups by GUID value:

--- Page 2041 of 2193 ---
To create a rule that applies to no one (corresponds to the We'll save this policy, but it
won't be applied to any devices in your organization setting in Step 5 when you
create the policy on the Recipients tab of the Basic Mobility and security page), use the
value 00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000.
Specify the GUID value of one or more security groups. To find the GUID values of
available security groups, use the following procedures:
1. If you haven't already, install the Microsoft.Graph.Groups PowerShell module by
running the following command in the current PowerShell window:
PowerShell
Install-Module Microsoft.Graph
Answer yes to any prompts about installing the NuGet provider or installing from
the PSGallery.
2. Connect to Microsoft.Graph.Groups PowerShell by running the following
command:
PowerShell
Connect-MgGraph -Scopes "Group.ReadWrite.All"
For detailed syntax and parameter information, see Connect-MgGraph.
3. Run the following command:
PowerShell
Get-MgGroup
Use the DisplayName value to find and copy the Id value to use.
 Tip
You might need to decrease the font size in the PowerShell window and run
the command again to clearly see all of the values. For example, click in the
window and use the scroll wheel on your mouse to scroll down, and then
run the command again.

--- Page 2042 of 2193 ---
You can't use Microsoft 365 Groups in device rules (the GroupTypes property
value is Unified).
For detailed syntax and parameter information, see Get-MgGroup.
The parameters that correspond to the policy settings on the Basic Mobility and security
page are described in the table at Policy settings in Basic Mobility and Security. Settings
that are exclusive to PowerShell are described at Exclusive policy settings in Security &
Compliance PowerShell.
The AllowJailbroken parameter isn't available on the New-DeviceConfigurationRule
cmdlet.
This example creates a device configuration rule with the following values:
Associated device configuration policy: Contoso Engineering
The rule applies to no one (00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000).
Use the default values for all settings.
PowerShell
New-DeviceConfigurationRule -Policy "Contoso Engineering" -TargetGroups "00000000-
0000-0000-0000-000000000000"
For detailed syntax and parameter information, see New-DeviceConfigurationRule and New-
DeviceConditionalAccessRule.
Use PowerShell to view device policies
To return a summary list of all device policies, use the following commands:
Device configuration policies (Allow access):
PowerShell
Get-DeviceConfigurationPolicy | Format-Table Name,Enabled
Device conditional access policies (Block access):
PowerShell
Get-DeviceConditionalAccessPolicy | Format-Table Name,Enabled

--- Page 2043 of 2193 ---
All device policies:
PowerShell
Get-DevicePolicy | Format-Table Name,Type,Enabled
 Tip
The Type property indicates DeviceSettings for device configuration policies or
DeviceConditionalAccess for device conditional access policies.
To return detailed information about a specific device policy, use the syntax of one of the
following commands:
Device configuration policies (Allow access):
PowerShell
Get-DeviceConfigurationPolicy -Identity "<PolicyName>"
Device conditional access policies (Block access):
PowerShell
Get-DeviceConditionalAccessPolicy -Identity "<PolicyName>"
Either device policy type:
PowerShell
Get-DevicePolicy -Identity "<PolicyName>"
This example returns all the property values for the device configuration policy named
Executives.
PowerShell
Get-DeviceConfigurationPolicy -Identity "Executives"
For detailed syntax and parameter information, see Get-DeviceConfigurationPolicy, Get-
DeviceConditionalAccessPolicy, and Get-DevicePolicy.

--- Page 2044 of 2193 ---
Use PowerShell to view device rules
To return a summary list of all device rules, use the following commands:
Device configuration rules (Allow access):
PowerShell
Get-DeviceConfigurationRule | Format-Table Name,TargetGroups,Mode
Device conditional access rules (Block access):
PowerShell
Get-DeviceConditionalAccessRule | Format-Table Name,TargetGroups,Mode
To return detailed information about a specific device rule, use the syntax of one of the
following commands:
Device configuration rules (Allow access):
PowerShell
Get-DeviceConfigurationRule -Identity "<RuleName>" | Format-List [<Specific
properties to view>]
Device conditional access rules (Block access):
PowerShell
Get-DeviceConditionalAccessRule -Identity "<RuleName>" | Format-List
[<Specific properties to view>]
This example returns all the property values for the device configuration rule named
Executives{2b18}.
PowerShell
Get-DeviceConfigurationRule -Identity "Executives{2b18}"
This example returns the target groups and all password related properties for the same rule.
PowerShell

--- Page 2045 of 2193 ---
Get-DeviceConfigurationRule -Identity "Executives{2b18}" | Format-List
TargetGroups,*Password*
This example expands the full list of security group GUID values in the TargetGroups property
for the specified rule.
PowerShell
Get-DeviceConfigurationRule -Identity "Executives{2b18}" | Select-Object -
ExpandProperty TargetGroups
 Tip
The value of the Disabled property in the output of the Get-DeviceConfigurationRule
doesn't mean anything. You enable or disable the policy by using the Enabled parameter
on the New-DeviceConfigurationPolicy or Set-DeviceConfigurationPolicy cmdlets.
For detailed syntax and parameter information, see Get-DeviceConfigurationRule and Get-
DeviceConditionalAccessRule.
Use PowerShell to modify device policies
Other than specifying the name of the policy, the same settings are available when you modify
a device policy in PowerShell as when you create the policy as described in the Step 1: Use
PowerShell to create a device policy section earlier in this article.
To modify a device policy, use the syntax of one of the following commands:
Device configuration policies (Allow access):
PowerShell
Set-DeviceConfigurationPolicy -Identity "<PolicyName>" [-Comment "
<OptionalComment>"] [-Enabled <$true | $false>]
Device conditional access policies (Block access):
PowerShell
Set-DeviceConditionalAccessPolicy -Identity "<PolicyName>" [-Comment "
<OptionalComment>"] [-Enabled <$true | $false>]

--- Page 2046 of 2193 ---
This example disables the device configuration policy named Executives.
PowerShell
Set-DeviceConfigurationPolicy -Identity "Executives" -Enabled $false
On the Policies tab of the Basic Mobility and Security page, the Status value changes from On
to Off.
To enable a disabled policy, use the value $true for the Enabled parameter.
For detailed syntax and parameter information, see Set-DeviceConfigurationPolicy and Set-
DeviceConditionalAccessPolicy.
Use PowerShell to modify device rules
Other than specifying the associated device policy, the same settings are available when you
create a rule as described in the Step 2: Use PowerShell to create a device rule section earlier in
this article.
To modify a device rule, use the syntax of one of the following commands:
Device configuration rules (Allow access):
PowerShell
Set-DeviceConfigurationRule -Identity "<RuleName>" -TargetGroups
"SecurityGroupGUID1","SecurityGroupGUID2",..."SecurityGroupGUIDN" [<Access
Requirement settings>] [Configuration settings] [<PowerShell exclusive
settings>]
Device conditional access rules (Block access):
PowerShell
Set-DeviceConditionalAccessRule -Identity "<RuleName>" -TargetGroups
"SecurityGroupGUID1","SecurityGroupGUID2",..."SecurityGroupGUIDN" [-
AllowJailBroken <$true | $false>] [<Other Access Requirement settings>]
[Configuration settings] [<PowerShell exclusive settings>]
７ Note
A value for the TargetGroups parameter is required in this command and overwrites the
existing values. To find the existing values, replace <RuleIdentity> with the name of the

--- Page 2047 of 2193 ---
device rule, and then run one the following applicable commands:
PowerShell
Get-DeviceConfigurationRule -Identity "<RuleIdentity>" | Select-Object -
ExpandProperty TargetGroups
PowerShell
Get-DeviceConditionalAccessRule -Identity "<RuleIdentity>" | Select-Object -
ExpandProperty TargetGroups
For detailed syntax and parameter information, see Set-DeviceConfigurationRule and Set-
DeviceConditionalAccessRule.
Use PowerShell to remove device policies
 Tip
When you use PowerShell to remove a device policy, the associated device rule is also
marked for deletion. For the next few minutes, the output of the Get-
DeviceConfigurationRule cmdlet for the rule has the Mode property value
PendingDeletion. This state corresponds to the Status value Deleting... on the Policies tab
of the Basic Mobility and Security page. After a few minutes, the device rule is also
removed.
You can remove the device policy of the last remaining policy in your organization, but the
associated device rule isn't removed nor is it removable. For more information, see the
next section.
To remove a device policy in PowerShell, use the syntax of one of the following commands:
Device configuration policies (Allow access):
PowerShell
Remove-DeviceConfigurationPolicy -Identity "<PolicyName>"
Device conditional access policies (Block access):
PowerShell

--- Page 2048 of 2193 ---
Remove-DeviceConditionalAccessPolicy -Identity "<PolicyName>"
This example removes the device configuration policy named Marketing Department.
PowerShell
Remove-DeviceConfigurationPolicy -Identity "Marketing Department"
The associated device configuration rule named Marketing Department{xxx} is automatically
removed after a few minutes.
For detailed syntax and parameter information, see Remove-DeviceConfigurationPolicy and
Remove-DeviceConditionalAccessPolicy.
Use PowerShell to remove device rules
 Tip
When you use PowerShell to remove a device rule, the associated device policy isn't
removed, so you need to manually remove it.
You can't remove the device rule of the last remaining policy in your organization.
Regardless of how you tried to remove it (on the Policies tab Basic Mobility and Security
page, by removing the associated device policy first, or by removing the device rule
directly), the Mode value of the last device rule remains in the PendingDeletion state. To
complete the deletion of the rule, create one or more policies (device policies and
associated device rules) on the Basic Mobility and Security page or in PowerShell as
previously described.
To remove a device rule in PowerShell, use the syntax of one of the following commands:
Device configuration rules (Allow access):
PowerShell
Remove-DeviceConfigurationRule -Identity "<PolicyName>"
Device conditional access rules (Block access):
PowerShell

--- Page 2049 of 2193 ---
Remove-DeviceConditionalAccessRule -Identity "<PolicyName>"
This example removes the device configuration rule named Marketing Department.
PowerShell
Remove-DeviceConfigurationRule -Identity "Marketing Department"
For detailed syntax and parameter information, see Remove-DeviceConfigurationRule and
Remove-DeviceConditionalAccessRule.
What happens when you delete a policy or remove
a user from a policy?
When you delete a policy or remove a user from a policy, information that might be removed
from the device is described in the following table:
ﾉ Expand table
What's removed iOS/iPadOS Android Samsung KNOX
Managed email profiles* Yes No No
Blocked cloud backup Yes No No
* If the policy was deployed with Require managing email profile (iOS - required for selective
wipe) selected, the managed email profile and cached email in that profile are deleted from
the device.
The policy is removed from the affected device the next time the device checks in with Basic
Mobility and Security. If you deploy a new policy that applies to the device, users are prompted
to re-enroll in Basic Mobility and Security.
You can also wipe a mobile device completely, or selectively wipe organizational information
from the device. For more information, see Wipe a mobile device in Basic Mobility and Security.

--- Page 2050 of 2193 ---
Enroll devices in Basic Mobility and
Security
09/09/2025Applies to: ✅ Microsoft 365 Business Basic, ✅ Microsoft 365 Business Standard
After an admin sets up Basic Mobility and Security and configures policies, users need to enroll
their supported devices in Basic Mobility and Security to access Microsoft 365 company data
using supported apps.
The rest of this article explains how users can enroll their supported devices in Basic Mobility
and Security.
） Important
Basic Mobility and Security is a mobile device management (MDM) solution, which means
your Microsoft 365 organization controls the enrolled device, not just company data on
the device. For example, admins can configure policies that require complex passwords,
block access to specific features, and remotely wipe devices. For information about
information that's visible to admins on enrolled devices, see What information can my
organization see when I enroll my device?.
Enroll iOS/iPadOS devices in Basic Mobility and
Security
 Tip
You can't send and receive Microsoft 365 email until you complete this step.
1. In the Apple App Store, find and install the Intune Company Portal app on the device.
2. Open the Company Portal app and sign in with the Microsoft 365 work or school account
of the device user.
The rest of the instructions are described in Microsoft Intune - iOS/iPadOS device enrollment
with the Company Portal app.
Enroll Android devices in Basic Mobility and Security
 Tip

--- Page 2051 of 2193 ---
You can't send and receive Microsoft 365 email until you complete this step.
1. In the Google Play Store, find and install the Intune Company Portal app on the device.
2. Open the Company Portal app and sign in with the Microsoft 365 work or school account
of the device user.
The rest of the instructions are described in Microsoft Intune - Enroll Android devices with the
Company Portal app.
Enroll Windows devices in Basic Mobility and Security
1. In the Microsoft Store, find and install the Intune Company Portal app .
2. Open the Company Portal app and sign in with the Microsoft 365 work or school account
of the device user.
To connect and configure your Windows phone or PC with the Company portal to Microsoft
365, see Enroll Windows 10/11 devices in Intune.
Next steps
After your device is enrolled in Basic Mobility and Security, you can start using Microsoft 365
productivity apps on your device to work with email, calendar, contacts, and documents.

--- Page 2052 of 2193 ---
View device details in Basic Mobility and
Security
09/09/2025Applies to: ✅ Microsoft 365 Business Basic, ✅ Microsoft 365 Business Standard
In Basic Mobility and Security in Microsoft 365 for Business Basic and Business Standard, you
can use the Active devices page in the Microsoft 365 admin center or Microsoft Graph
PowerShell to get details about the devices in your organization.
For more information about Basic Mobility and Security, see Overview of Basic Mobility and
Security in Microsoft 365 for business.
What do you need to know before you begin?
You open the Active devices page for Basic Mobility and Security at
https://admin.microsoft.com/Adminportal/Home?#/IntuneDevices/?isMifo=true .
If you haven't already, install the Microsoft Graph PowerShell SDK by running the
following command in an elevated PowerShell window (a PowerShell window you open
by selecting Run as administrator):
PowerShell
Install-Module Microsoft.Graph -Scope AllUsers
Answer yes to any directives about installing the NuGet provider or installing from the
PSGallery.
To run the upcoming script, the PowerShell execution policy on your computer needs to
be set to RemoteSigned (it isn't by default). For instructions, see Set the PowerShell
execution policy to RemoteSigned.
You need to be assigned permissions before you can do the procedures in this article. You
have the following options:
Microsoft Entra permissions: Membership in the Global Administrator* or Directory
Readers roles gives users the required permissions and permissions for other features
in Microsoft 365.
） Important

--- Page 2053 of 2193 ---
* Microsoft recommends that you use roles with the fewest permissions. Using
lower permissioned accounts helps improve security for your organization. Global
Administrator is a highly privileged role that should be limited to emergency
scenarios when you can't use an existing role.
You can't use a delegated admin account to manage Basic Mobility and Security. For
more information about delegated administration, see Partners: Offer delegated
administration .
Questions? See the Basic Mobility and Security FAQ.
Use the Active devices page to view device details
On the Overview tab of the Basic Mobility and Security page at
https://compliance.microsoft.com/basicmobilityandsecurity , select Manage devices. Or, to
go directly to the Active devices page, use https://admin.microsoft.com/Adminportal/Home?
#/IntuneDevices/?isMifo=true .
On the Fully managed tab of the Active Devices page, the following properties are displayed
in the list of devices:
Device name
Display name
Username
OS
Device action
Last check-in
To change the list of devices from normal to compact spacing, select Change list spacing to
compact or normal, and then select Compact list.
Use the Search box and a corresponding value to find specific devices.
To view details about a specific device, click anywhere in the row other than the check box next
to the first column. The details flyout that opens contains the following information:
Display name
Username
OS version
Device action
Last check-in
Management type
Serial number

--- Page 2054 of 2193 ---
 Tip
To take action on a device ( Factory reset, Remove company data, or Delete),
see Wipe devices enrolled in Basic Mobility and Security.
Use Microsoft Graph PowerShell to view device
details
Device cmdlets in Microsoft Graph PowerShell show the enrollment and compliance status of
recognized devices:
isManaged property:
True: The device is enrolled in Basic Mobility and Security.
False: The device isn't enrolled in Basic Mobility and Security.
isCompliant property:
True: The device is compliant with the settings of the applicable policy in Basic Mobility
and Security.
False: The device isn't compliant with the settings of the applicable policy in Basic
Mobility and Security.
This information is illustrated in the following diagram:


--- Page 2055 of 2193 ---
Use the Get-MgDevice cmdlet to view device details
1. Open a PowerShell window and connect to your Microsoft 365 organization in Microsoft
Graph by running the following command:
PowerShell
Connect-MgGraph -Scopes Device.Read.All,User.Read.All
For more information about connecting, see Sign in to Microsoft Graph PowerShell.
2. Run the following command:
PowerShell
Get-MgDevice -All -ExpandProperty "registeredOwners" | Where-Object
{($_.RegisteredOwners -ne $null) -and ($_.RegisteredOwners.Count -gt 0)}
Depending on the width of your screen, the width of the PowerShell window, and the font size
in the PowerShell window, the following information is shown:
DeletedDateTime
Id
AccountEnabled
ApproximateLastSignInDateTime
ComplianceExpirationDateTime
DeviceId
DeviceMetadata
DeviceVersion
DisplayName
IsCompliant
IsManaged
For detailed syntax and parameter information, see Get-MgDevice.
Create a PowerShell script to get device details
1. Copy the following text into Notepad and save it as Get-MgGraphDeviceOwnership.ps1 (a
PowerShell script file) in a place that's easy to find. For example, save the file to the C:\My
Documents folder.
PowerShell

--- Page 2056 of 2193 ---
param (
[Parameter(Mandatory = $false)]
[PSObject[]]$Users = @(),
[Parameter(Mandatory = $false)]
[Switch]$Export,
[Parameter(Mandatory = $false)]
[String]$ExportFileName = "UserDeviceOwnership_" + (Get-Date -Format
"yyMMdd_HHMMss") + ".csv",
[Parameter(Mandatory = $false)]
[String]$ExportPath = [Environment]::GetFolderPath("Desktop")
)
#Clearing the screen
Clear-Host
#Preparing the output object
$deviceOwnership = @()
if ($users.Count -eq 0) {
Write-Output "No user has been provided, gathering data for all devices
in the tenant"
#Getting all Devices and their registered owners
$devices = Get-MgDevice -All -Property * -ExpandProperty registeredOwners
#For each device which has a registered owner, extract the device data
and the registered owner data
foreach ($device in $devices) {
$DeviceOwners = $device | Select-Object -ExpandProperty
'RegisteredOwners'
#Checking if the DeviceOwners Object is empty
if ($DeviceOwners -ne $null) {
foreach ($DeviceOwner in $DeviceOwners) {
$OwnerDictionary = $DeviceOwner.AdditionalProperties
$OwnerDisplayName = $OwnerDictionary.Item('displayName')
$OwnerUPN = $OwnerDictionary.Item('userPrincipalName')
$OwnerID = $deviceOwner.Id
$deviceOwnership += [PSCustomObject]@{
DeviceDisplayName = $device.DisplayName
DeviceId = $device.DeviceId
DeviceOSType = $device.OperatingSystem
DeviceOSVersion =
$device.OperatingSystemVersion
DeviceTrustLevel = $device.TrustType
DeviceIsCompliant = $device.IsCompliant
DeviceIsManaged = $device.IsManaged
DeviceObjectId = $device.Id
DeviceOwnerID = $OwnerID
DeviceOwnerDisplayName = $OwnerDisplayName
DeviceOwnerUPN = $OwnerUPN
ApproximateLastLogonTimestamp =
$device.ApproximateLastSignInDateTime
}
}

--- Page 2057 of 2193 ---
}
}
}
else {
#Checking that userid is present in the users object
Write-Output "List of users has been provided, gathering data for all
devices owned by the provided users"
foreach ($user in $users) {
$devices = Get-MgUserOwnedDevice -UserId $user.Id -Property *
foreach ($device in $devices) {
$DeviceHashTable = $device.AdditionalProperties
$deviceOwnership += [PSCustomObject]@{
DeviceId =
$DeviceHashTable.Item('deviceId')
DeviceOSType =
$DeviceHashTable.Item('operatingSystem')
DeviceOSVersion =
$DeviceHashTable.Item('operatingSystemVersion')
DeviceTrustLevel =
$DeviceHashTable.Item('trustType')
DeviceDisplayName =
$DeviceHashTable.Item('displayName')
DeviceIsCompliant = if
($DeviceHashTable.ContainsKey('isCompliant'))
{$DeviceHashTable.Item('isCompliant')} else {$null}
DeviceIsManaged = if
($DeviceHashTable.ContainsKey('isManaged'))
{$DeviceHashTable.Item('isManaged')} else {$null}
DeviceObjectId = $device.Id
DeviceOwnerUPN = $user.UserPrincipalName
DeviceOwnerID = $user.Id
DeviceOwnerDisplayName = $user.DisplayName
ApproximateLastLogonTimestamp =
$DeviceHashTable.Item('approximateLastSignInDateTime')
}
}
}
}
$deviceOwnership
if ($export) {
$exportFile = Join-Path -Path $exportPath -ChildPath $exportFileName
$deviceOwnership | Export-Csv -Path $exportFile -NoTypeInformation
Write-Output "Data has been exported to $exportFile"
}
2. Open a PowerShell window and connect to your Microsoft 365 organization in Microsoft
Graph by running the following command:

--- Page 2058 of 2193 ---
PowerShell
Connect-MgGraph -Scopes Device.Read.All,User.Read.All
For more information about connecting, see Sign in to Microsoft Graph PowerShell.
3. Use the following syntax to run the script:
PowerShell
& <path to script>\Get-MgGraphDeviceOwnership.ps1 [-Users <UserIds>] [-
Export] [-ExportPath "<File path>"] [-ExportFileName "<FileName>"]
If you don't use the Users parameter the script returns information about all devices
in the organization. The upcoming examples show how to use the Users parameter
for individual users or group members.
The Export switch exports the results of the script to a CSV file. If you don't use the
ExportPath or ExportFileName parameters, the default path is the Desktop folder,
and the default filename is UserDeviceOwnership_<Date>_<Time>.csv.
If you go to the folder where the script is located (for example, run the command cd
C:\My Documents in the PowerShell window), you can replace & C:\My Documents\
with .\ in all commands when you run the script.
This example returns device details for the specified user.
PowerShell
& C:\My Documents\Get-MgGraphDeviceOwnership.ps1 -Users (Get-MgUser -UserId
"laura@contoso.com")
This example returns device details for users in the FinanceStaff security group and exports the
results to the specified file and location.
PowerShell
$groupId = Get-MgGroup -Filter "displayName eq 'FinanceStaff'" | Select-Object -
ExpandProperty Id
$Users = Get-MgGroupMember -GroupId $groupId | Select-Object -ExpandProperty Id |
ForEach-Object {Get-MgUser -UserId $_}
& C:\My Documents\Get-MgGraphDeviceOwnership.ps1 -User $Users -Export -ExportPath
"C:\My Documents" -ExportFileName "Contoso FinanceStaff Devices 2024-12-19.csv"

--- Page 2059 of 2193 ---
Related content
Get-MgUser
Get-MgDevice
Get-MgUserOwnedDevice

--- Page 2060 of 2193 ---
Wipe devices in Basic Mobility and Security
09/09/2025Applies to: ✅ Microsoft 365 Business Basic, ✅ Microsoft 365 Business Standard
Mobile devices can store sensitive organizational information and provide access to your
organization's Microsoft 365 resources. Admins can remotely remove company data from
devices that are enrolled in Basic Mobility and Security. The following actions are available:
Factory reset: Delete all data on the device, including all installed apps, photos, and
personal information. This action returns the device to factory default settings. Typically,
you use this action on company owned devices. For example:
Lost or stolen devices.
Reassigned devices before you reassign them.
Remove company data: Remove only organization data from the device. Personal data,
photos, and apps aren't affected. Typically, you use this action on personal devices when
a user leaves the company. Removing company data has the following effects based on
the device platform:
Policy settings applied by Basic Mobility and Security are no longer enforced; users can
change the device settings. Applies to:
iOS/iPadOS
Android
Email profiles created by Basic Mobility and Security are removed and cached email is
deleted. Applies to:
iOS/iPadOS
 Tip
The Require managing email profile (RequireEmailProfile) setting is required in
the applicable policy to remove company data.
Delete: Remove the device from management by Basic Mobility and Security. The result is
equivalent to Remove company data.
Regardless of your selection, the request is immediately sent to the device:
The device is marked as not compliant in Microsoft Entra ID.
The device is removed from the list of managed devices on the Fully managed tab of the
Active devices page in the Microsoft 365 admin center.

--- Page 2061 of 2193 ---
What do you need to know before you begin?
You open the Active devices page for Basic Mobility and Security at
https://admin.microsoft.com/Adminportal/Home?#/IntuneDevices/?isMifo=true .
You need to be assigned permissions before you can do the procedures in this article. You
have the following options:
Microsoft Entra permissions: Membership in the Global Administrator* or Cloud
Device Administrator roles gives users the required permissions and permissions for
other features in Microsoft 365.
） Important
* Microsoft recommends that you use roles with the fewest permissions. Using
lower permissioned accounts helps improve security for your organization. Global
Administrator is a highly privileged role that should be limited to emergency
scenarios when you can't use an existing role.
You can't use a delegated admin account to manage Basic Mobility and Security. For
more information about delegated administration, see Partners: Offer delegated
administration .
Questions? See the Basic Mobility and Security FAQ.
Wipe a device
1. On the Overview tab of the Basic Mobility and Security page at
https://compliance.microsoft.com/basicmobilityandsecurity , select Manage devices. Or,
to go directly to the Active devices page, use
https://admin.microsoft.com/Adminportal/Home?#/IntuneDevices/?isMifo=true .
Devices on the Fully managed tab are enrolled in Basic Mobility and Security.
2. On the Fully managed tab of the Active devices page, do one of the following steps to
select the device or devices you want to wipe:
Select the check box next to the Device name column of one or more devices.
Clicking anywhere in the row other than the check box next to the Device name
column to open the details flyout.
⋮
Select in the Device name column.
3. Select one of the following actions:

--- Page 2062 of 2193 ---
Remove company data: Delete only Microsoft 365 organization information.
Read the information in the confirmation dialog that opens, and then select Remove
data.
Factory reset: Wipe the device and return it to factory settings. Read the
information in the confirmation dialog that opens, and then select Factory Reset.
Delete: Equivalent to Remove data. Read the information in the confirmation
dialog that opens, and then select Delete.
 Tip
You can configure device security policies in Basic Mobility and Security to automatically
factory reset devices after a specified number of unsuccessful device password attempts
(the Number of sign-in failures before device is wiped setting). For more information, see
Access requirement settings in Basic Mobility and Security and Configure policies in
Basic Mobility and Security.

--- Page 2063 of 2193 ---
Turn off Basic Mobility and Security
enforcement
09/09/2025Applies to: ✅ Microsoft 365 Business Basic, ✅ Microsoft 365 Business Standard
You can't completely turn off or disable Basic Mobility and Security in your organization after
you enable and configure it. But you can remove the enforcement of Basic Mobility and
Security on devices in your organization by using either of the following methods:
Remove security group assignments from all Basic Mobility and Security policies: This
method works up to a certain point, because a policy must be assigned to at least one
security group. You have the following options:
Create a new security group with no members and assign all policies to that group. For
security group creation instructions, see Create, edit, or delete a security group.
Assign the policy to no one (select We'll save this policy, but it won't be applied to
any devices in your organization).
Remove all Basic Mobility and Security policies: This option works up to a certain point,
because you can't remove the last remaining policy in the organization. You have the
following options:
Create a new security group with no members and assign the last remaining policy to
that group. For security group creation instructions, see Create, edit, or delete a
security group.
Assign the last remaining policy to no one (select We'll save this policy, but it won't be
applied to any devices in your organization).
Create a new policy with no restrictions assigned to no one or an empty security
group, and then remove all other policies.
The rest of this article describes how to use these methods to effectively disable Basic Mobility
and Security enforcement in an organization.
For more information about Basic Mobility and Security, see Overview of Basic Mobility and
Security in Microsoft 365 for business.
） Important
Be aware of the effect on user devices when you turn off Basic Mobility and Security
enforcement. For example, email profiles and cached email might be removed. For more
information, see What happens when you delete a policy or remove a user from a
policy?.

--- Page 2064 of 2193 ---
What do you need to know before you begin?
You open the Basic Mobility and Security page at
https://compliance.microsoft.com/basicmobilityandsecurity .
You need to be assigned permissions before you can do the procedures in this article. You
have the following options:
Microsoft Entra permissions: Membership in the Global Administrator* or Compliance
Administrator roles gives users the required permissions and permissions for other
features in Microsoft 365.
） Important
* Microsoft recommends that you use roles with the fewest permissions. Using
lower permissioned accounts helps improve security for your organization. Global
Administrator is a highly privileged role that should be limited to emergency
scenarios when you can't use an existing role.
You can't use a delegated admin account to manage Basic Mobility and Security. For
more information about delegated administration, see Partners: Offer delegated
administration .
Questions? See the Basic Mobility and Security FAQ.
Remove security group assignments from all Basic
Mobility and Security policies
1. On the Basic Mobility and Security page at
https://compliance.microsoft.com/basicmobilityandsecurity , select the Policies tab.
2. On the Policies tab, select a policy by clicking anywhere in the row other than the check
box next to the name to open the details flyout for the policy.
3. In the details flyout, select Edit deployment in the Deployment section.
4. In the Edit deployment flyout that opens, make one of the following selections:
Remove any existing groups below the Include these groups box, start typing the
name of the designated security group with no members in the box, and then select
it when it appears.

--- Page 2065 of 2193 ---
Select We'll save this policy, but it won't be applied to any devices in your
organization
When you're finished on the Edit deployment flyout, select Save.
5. Back on the details flyout, select Close.
Repeat these steps as many times as necessary.
Remove all Basic Mobility and Security policies
1. On the Basic Mobility and Security page at
https://compliance.microsoft.com/basicmobilityandsecurity , select the Policies tab.
2. On the Policies tab, select the policy to remove by selecting the check box next to the
name.
3. Select More actions > Delete selected policies.
4. Select Yes in the warning dialog that opens.
5. Repeat the previous steps until only one policy remains, then do one of the following
steps:
Create a new policy with no restrictions assigned to no one or an empty security
group. After you create this policy, remove the last remaining "real" policy. For
policy creation instructions, see Create policies in Basic Mobility and Security.
Assign the last remaining policy to no one or an empty security group as described
in the Remove security group assignments from all Basic Mobility and Security
device policies section.

--- Page 2066 of 2193 ---
Overview of Windows Autopilot
Applies to: ✅ Windows 11, ✅ Windows 10, ✅ Windows Holographic
Windows Autopilot is a collection of technologies used to set up and pre-configure new devices,
getting them ready for productive use. Windows Autopilot can be used to deploy Windows PCs
or HoloLens 2 devices. For more information about deploying HoloLens 2 with Windows
Autopilot, see Windows Autopilot for HoloLens 2.
Windows Autopilot can also be used to reset, repurpose, and recover devices. This solution
enables an IT department to achieve these goals with little to no infrastructure to manage, with a
process that's easy and simple.
Windows Autopilot simplifies the Windows device lifecycle, for both IT and end users, from initial
deployment to end of life. Using cloud-based services, Windows Autopilot:
Reduces the time IT spends on deploying, managing, and retiring devices.
Reduces the infrastructure required to maintain the devices.
Maximizes ease of use for all types of end users.
See the following video:
https://learn-video.azurefd.net/vod/player?id=af8941a0-1b9c-4bbd-8b75-
9754d8badf56&locale=en-us&embedUrl=%2Fautopilot%2Foverview
７ Note
This article is for Windows Autopilot. For Windows Autopilot device preparation, see
Overview of Windows Autopilot device preparation.
Process overview
When new Windows devices are initially deployed, Windows Autopilot uses the OEM-optimized
version of Windows client. This version is preinstalled on the device, so custom images and
drivers for every device model don't have to be maintained. Instead of re-imaging the device, the
existing Windows installation can be transformed into a "business-ready" state that can:
Apply settings and policies.

--- Page 2067 of 2193 ---
Install apps.
Change the edition of Windows being used to support advanced features. For example,
from Windows Pro to Windows Enterprise.
Once deployed, Windows devices can be managed with:
Microsoft Intune.
Windows Update client policies.
Microsoft Configuration Manager.
Other similar tools from non-Microsoft parties.
Requirements
A supported version of Windows semi-annual channel is required to use Windows Autopilot. For
more information, see Windows Autopilot software, networking, configuration, and licensing
requirements.

--- Page 2068 of 2193 ---
Summary
Traditionally, IT pros spend significant time building and customizing images that are later
deployed to devices. Windows Autopilot introduces a new approach.
From the user's perspective, it only takes a few simple operations to make their device ready
to use.
From the IT pro's perspective, the only interaction required from the end user is to connect
to a network and to verify their credentials. Everything beyond that is automated.
Windows Autopilot enables the following functionality:
Automatic joining of devices to Microsoft Entra ID or Active Directory (via Microsoft Entra
hybrid join). For more information about the differences between these two join options,
see Introduction to device management in Microsoft Entra ID.
Auto-enrollment of devices into mobile device management (MDM) services, such as
Microsoft Intune (Requires a Microsoft Entra ID P1 or P2 subscription for configuration).
Creation and auto-assignment of devices to configuration groups based on a device's
profile.
Customization of the out-of-box experience (OOBE) content specific to the organization.
Existing device can also be quickly prepared for a new user with Windows Autopilot Reset. The
Reset capability is also useful in break/fix scenarios to quickly bring a device back to a business-
ready state.
Tutorial
For a tutorial with detailed instructions on configuring Windows Autopilot, see Windows
Autopilot scenarios.
Related content
Enroll Windows devices in Intune by using Windows Autopilot.
Windows Autopilot scenarios and capabilities.
Last updated on 06/13/2025

--- Page 2069 of 2193 ---
Manage Microsoft 365 installation options
in the Microsoft 365 admin center
As a Microsoft 365 admin, you can choose to do the following tasks on the Microsoft 365
installation options page in the Microsoft 365 admin center:
Choose how often to get feature updates for Office
Manage which version of Office is installed, including
Roll back to a previous version
Skip an upcoming version
Choose whether users can install Office on their own devices
If you don't want users installing Office themselves, you can manually deploy Office to your users.
 Tip
To get to Microsoft 365 installation options, sign in to the Microsoft 365 admin center with
your admin account, and then go to Show all > Settings > Org settings > Services.
Choose how often to get feature updates for Office
You can choose how often you want your users to get feature updates for the Office apps
installed on devices running Windows. For example, you can provide new features as soon as
they're ready, or once a month (on the second Tuesday of the month), or twice a year (in January
and July, on the second Tuesday).
We recommend Current Channel, because it provides your users with the newest Office features
as soon as they're ready. If you need more predictability of when new Office features are
released, we recommend Monthly Enterprise Channel with a cloud update. By using cloud
update, you automatically deliver monthly Office updates for specific users or groups in waves,
limiting the effect on your network. In those cases where you selected devices that require
extensive testing before receiving new features, we recommend Semi-Annual Enterprise Channel.
For more information, see Overview of update channels for Microsoft 365 Apps.
７ Note

--- Page 2070 of 2193 ---
You won't see an option to choose Semi-Annual Enterprise Channel if your tenant was
created after January 15, 2023. Semi-Annual Enterprise Channel is still available. You can
move devices to that channel by using other methods, such as the Office Deployment Tool
or Group Policy. For more information, see Change the Microsoft 365 Apps update channel
for devices in your organization.
After you select an update channel under Feature updates and choose Save, your choice of
update channel will apply to both new and existing installations of Office in your organization.
You can change your channel selection at any time.
For new installations, your update channel selection applies to any new installations of Office that
are initiated by your users through Apps at Office.com by selecting Install apps > Microsoft
365 apps.
For existing installations of Office, your selection is applied to devices within 12 hours. Devices
will automatically get the latest build from the selected update channel the next time they check
for Office updates. Office is updated directly from the Office Content Delivery Network (CDN) on
the internet.
Keep in mind that moving to a different update channel can also change which features are
available to your users. For more information about which features are available in each update
channel, see Release notes for Microsoft 365 Apps releases.
７ Note
Your choice under Feature updates won't apply if you're already using some other
method to manage Office on devices in your organization.
For example, if you’re using Office policy settings (with Group Policy or Cloud Policy),
Microsoft Configuration Manager, Microsoft Intune, or the Office Deployment Tool (the
UpdatePath attribute in the Updates element). You’ll need to use that method to
change the update channel on those devices instead of using Microsoft 365
installation options.
If you’re using the Office Deployment Tool in a different way (for example, specifying
the Channel attribute in the Add element or in the Updates element), and not any of
the other methods mentioned in the previous bullet point, then your choice under
Feature updates will apply to those devices.

--- Page 2071 of 2193 ---
Also, if you're using the Microsoft 365 Apps admin center , and the device is
included in the inventory or is managed by cloud update, then your choice under
Feature updates won't apply.
Your choice under Feature updates applies only to new, but not existing, installations if
you have one of the following plans: Office 365 operated by 21Vianet, Office 365 GCC,
or Office 365 GCC High and DoD.
Manage which version of Office is installed
You can also, in certain situations, roll back devices in your organization to a previous version of
Office or skip an upcoming version.
This capability is available to you on the Version management tab in the Microsoft 365 admin
center, under Settings > Org settings > Services > Microsoft 365 installation options. The
Version management tab is only shown if you chose Monthly Enterprise Channel for feature
updates on the Installation options tab. You can only manage versions of Office that are installed
on devices running Windows.
７ Note
Your choices on the Version management tab won't apply if you're already using some
other method to manage Office on devices in your organization. For example, if you’re
using Office policy settings (with Group Policy or Cloud Policy), Microsoft Configuration
Manager, or Microsoft Intune.
If you’re using the Office Deployment Tool to manage Office on devices in your
organization, but none of the other methods mentioned in the previous bullet point,
then your choices on the Version management tab will apply to devices in your
organization.
The Version management tab isn't available if you have one of the following plans:
Office 365 operated by 21Vianet, Office 365 GCC, or Office 365 GCC High and DoD.
On the Version management tab, you can see your current version, your previous version, and
your next scheduled version of Office for Monthly Enterprise Channel. Updates to Monthly
Enterprise Channel are released on the second Tuesday of each month.

--- Page 2072 of 2193 ---
Roll back to a previous version
If you’re having a problem with the current version of Office, you can roll back devices in your
organization to a previous version of Monthly Enterprise Channel.
If you decide to roll back to a previous version, devices in your organization will roll back to that
previous version the next time Office checks for updates. Also, the information on the Version
management tab is updated to show that the previous version is now the current version for
devices in your organization.
If you want to stay on that previous version beyond the next version update, you’ll also need to
choose Skip this version. Otherwise, your organization's devices automatically update to the
latest version starting from the second Tuesday of the month. That update comes directly from
the Office Content Delivery Network (CDN) on the internet.
We don’t recommend staying on a version that is no longer supported and that is no longer
receiving security updates.
Skip an upcoming version
If you want to stay on your current version of Office, you can skip the next scheduled version for
Monthly Enterprise Channel. But, you can only skip one version at a time.
If you want to skip more than one upcoming version, you need to go to the Version
management tab before the second Tuesday of the month, and once again choose Skip this
version. If you don’t choose Skip this version, devices in your organization are updated to the
most recent version available starting on the second Tuesday of the month. That update comes
directly from the Office Content Delivery Network (CDN) on the internet.
If you skip a version, you can't roll back to that version at a later time. The information displayed
on the Version management tab always shows you which version you can roll back to.
We don’t recommend staying on a version that is no longer supported and that is no longer
receiving security updates.
Choose whether users can install Office on their
own devices
As an admin, you can control which Office software your users can download and install through
Apps at Office.com by selecting Install apps > Microsoft 365 apps.

--- Page 2073 of 2193 ---
If you choose to make some software unavailable to your users, they see a message on their
Apps & devices page instead of an Install button. For example, if you choose to make Office
unavailable, users see this message:
Your admin turns off Office installs. Contact your admin for more information about how to get
Office in your organization.
７ Note
Users have to be local administrators on their devices to install Office software. If users
aren't local administrators, you'll have to install Office for them. For more information,
see Manually deploy the Office apps.
For users to be able to install Office, you need to assign them a license.
By default, Office installs all the apps that are included in your version of Office on the
user's device. If you want some users to get only certain apps, such as only Word and
PowerPoint, you can use the Office Deployment Tool to deploy Office to your users
with only those apps.
Manually deploy Office to your users
From the Manually deploy apps to users page, you can download the installation packages for
Skype for Business or Office for Mac. For more information about deploying Office for Mac, see
Deployment guide for Office for Mac.
Manually deploy the Office apps
If you don't want your users to install software themselves through Apps at Office.com , there
are several ways you can deploy Office to devices running Windows in your organization.
One way you can deploy Office to your users is by using the Office Deployment Tool, which you
can download for free from the Microsoft Download Center . You can use the Office
Deployment Tool on its own or with your existing software deployment tools and processes. For
more information, see Overview of the Office Deployment Tool.
You can use the Office Deployment Tool to configure your deployments of Office, whether you’re
installing Office directly from the Office Content Delivery Network (CDN) on the internet or from
a shared folder on your network. As part of the installation, you can, for example, specify an

--- Page 2074 of 2193 ---
update channel, include more languages, or exclude certain applications from being installed,
such as Access or Publisher.
If available to your organization, you can also use Microsoft Configuration Manager or Microsoft
Intune to deploy Office to your users. For more information, see Manage Microsoft 365 Apps with
Configuration Manager and Add Microsoft 365 apps to Windows 10 devices using Microsoft
Intune.
Manually deploy InfoPath 2013 and SharePoint Designer 2013
In addition to Office, you can download InfoPath 2013 and SharePoint Designer 2013 in order to
deploy them to your users. You can download them from the Microsoft Download Center by
using the following links:
InfoPath 2013 (32-bit and 64-bit versions)
SharePoint Designer 2013 (32-bit and 64-bit versions)
After you download the software, you can use your existing software deployment tools and
processes to deploy InfoPath or SharePoint Designer to your users.
Related articles
Overview of the Microsoft 365 admin center
Last updated on 05/27/2025

--- Page 2075 of 2193 ---
Idle session timeout for Microsoft 365
Use idle session timeout to configure a policy on how long users are inactive in your organization
before they're signed out of Microsoft 365 web apps. Automatically signing out inactive users
helps protect sensitive company data and adds another layer of security for end users who work
on non-company or shared devices.
When a user reaches the set idle timeout session, they get a notification that they're about to be
signed out. They have to select to stay signed in or they're automatically signed out of all
Microsoft 365 web apps.
） Important
Idle session timeout doesn't affect your Microsoft 365 desktop and mobile apps.
Turn on Idle session timeout
You must be a member of the Security admin, Application admin, or Cloud Application admin
roles to see the idle session timeout setting. The Global admin role is required for initial
activation of Idle Session Timeout. All other noted roles can deactivate and/or modify timeout
duration settings.
） Important
Microsoft recommends that you use roles with the fewest permissions. Using roles with the
fewest permissions helps improve security for your organization. Global Administrator is a
highly privileged role that should be limited to emergency scenarios when you can't use an
existing role. For more information, see About administrator roles in the Microsoft 365
admin center.
1. In the Microsoft 365 admin center, select Org Settings -> Security & privacy tab and
select Idle session timeout.
2. On the Idle Session Timeout, select the toggle to turn it on. You can choose a default
setting or choose your own custom time. It takes a few minutes before idle session is turned
on in your organization.

--- Page 2076 of 2193 ---
７ Note
If you set up idle session timeout policies for Outlook web app and SharePoint, turning
on idle session timeout in the Microsoft 365 admin center overrides the Outlook web app
and SharePoint settings.
Idle session timeout is one of the many security measures in Microsoft 365. To learn about other
security tasks in Microsoft 365, see Top security tasks in Microsoft 365.
What users see
When a user is inactive in Microsoft 365 web apps for the time period you chose, they see a Your
session is about to expire window. They have to select the Stay signed in button in the window
or they're signed out.
Details about idle session timeout
Idle session timeout is supported in:
Worldwide
US Government Clouds
Microsoft 365 operated by 21Vianet
The following Microsoft 365 web apps are supported:
Outlook Web App
OneDrive
SharePoint
Microsoft Fabric
Microsoft365.com and other start pages
Microsoft 365 web apps (Word, Excel, PowerPoint)
Microsoft 365 Admin Center
Microsoft Defender XDR Portal
Microsoft Purview Portal
SharePoint Admin Center
Activity refers to any client-side user interaction happening in the context of the web app.
For example, mouse clicks and keyboard presses.
Idle session timeout works on a per-browser session basis. A user's activity on Microsoft
Edge is treated differently than their activity in other browsers such as Google Chrome.

--- Page 2077 of 2193 ---
Users are signed out from all tabs corresponding to their account within that browser
session.
Once you turn on idle session timeout, it applies to your entire organization and can't be
scoped to specific users, organizational units, or groups. Use Microsoft Entra Conditional
Access policies for different users and groups to access SharePoint and Exchange Online.
Users must be inactive on all Microsoft 365 web app tabs for the configured duration. For
example, if a user is active on a tab in Outlook web app, while inactive on another tab in
SharePoint, they're considered active and aren't signed out.
Users don't get signed out in these cases:
If they get single sign-on (SSO) into the web app from the device joined account.
If they selected Stay signed in at the time of sign-in. For more info on hiding this option
for your organization, see Add branding to your organization's sign-in page.
If they're on a managed device, that is compliant or joined to a domain and using a
supported browser, like Microsoft Edge, or Google Chrome with the Microsoft Single
Sign On extension.
Trigger idle session timeout only on unmanaged
devices
By default, the idle session timeout feature triggers on all device types if the other conditions are
met. For this feature to trigger only on an unmanaged device, an eligible Microsoft Entra ID P1 or
P2 subscription is required. You also need to add a Conditional Access policy in the Microsoft
Entra admin center.
Idle session timeout on unmanaged devices
For idle session timeout to get triggered only on unmanaged devices, you need to add a
Conditional Access policy in the Microsoft Entra admin center.
1. On the Conditional Access | Policies page of the Microsoft Entra admin center, select New
policy and enter a name for the policy.
2. Select Users or workload identities, and then select All users.

--- Page 2078 of 2193 ---
3. Select Cloud apps or actions, Select apps, and search for Office 365. Select Office 365, and
then Select.
4. Select Conditions, Client apps, Configure to Yes, Browser, and then select Done.
5. Select Session, Use app enforced restrictions, and then Select.
6. Turn on the policy and select Create.
Frequently asked questions
Are there any browsers or browser scenarios in which idle
session timeout feature doesn't work?
Idle session timeout isn't supported when third party cookies are disabled in the browser. Users
don't see any sign-out prompts. We recommend keeping tracking prevention setting to Balanced
(Default) for Microsoft Edge, and third-party cookies enabled in your other browsers. Microsoft
365 web apps and services stopped supporting Internet Explorer 11 on August 17, 2021.
How should I prepare if my organization is already using
existing Outlook web app and SharePoint idle timeout policies?
If you're already using existing Outlook web app and SharePoint idle timeout policies, you can
still turn on idle session timeout feature. When you turn on the idle timeout policy, it takes
precedence over the existing Outlook web app and SharePoint Online policies. We're planning to
deprecate the existing Outlook web app and SharePoint policies soon. To better prepare your
organization, we recommend you turn on idle session timeout.
What happens if I'm inactive on an included Microsoft 365 web
app, but active on a Microsoft web app or SaaS web app that
doesn't have idle session time out turned on?
The following Microsoft 365 web apps are supported.
Outlook Web App
OneDrive
SharePoint
Microsoft Fabric
Microsoft365.com and other start pages
Microsoft 365 web apps (Word, Excel, PowerPoint)

--- Page 2079 of 2193 ---
Microsoft 365 admin center
Microsoft 365 Defender Portal
Microsoft Purview Portal
Sharepoint Admin Center
If you're working on a different web app with the same account, the activity in that web app isn't
applied to the idle session timeout.
I'm active in Azure portal, but I'm logged out of other
Microsoft 365 Apps for inactivity. Why am I logged out?
Azure portal supports a similar inactivity feature, but is tracked in the Azure portal.
７ Note
When initially activated within the Azure portal, the timeout duration by default inherits from
Microsoft 365 admin center idle session timeout setting. However, the timeout policy for the
Azure portal can be explicitly configured within the portal itself. For more information, see
Azure portal: Signing-Out + Notification.
I'm using Microsoft Fabric, how does Idle Session Timeout
impact long-running Fabric Notebook executions?
If you are using a non-managed device where Idle Session Timeout is enabled, long-running
interactive Fabric Notebook executions may be affected if a user goes inactive beyond the set
tenant-wide session timeout policy. This is a pro-active measure to ensure idle devices are not
accessible by outside parties. To mitigate, we advise users to not go inactive within Microsoft 365
web apps while long-running executions are running.
I want to make changes to the idle session timeout policy or
delete it. How can I do that?
Update the policy:
1. In the Microsoft 365 admin center, select Settings > Org settings, go to the Security &
Privacy tab and select Idle session timeout.
2. In the dropdown menu, select a different timeout value and then Save.

--- Page 2080 of 2193 ---
Delete the policy:
1. In the Microsoft 365 admin center, select Settings > Org settings, go to the Security &
Privacy tab and select Idle session timeout.
2. Uncheck Turn on to set the period of inactivity for users to be signed off of Microsoft 365
web apps and select Save.
Last updated on 04/29/2026

--- Page 2081 of 2193 ---
Switch from Google Workspace - Overview
Check out all of our small business content on Small business help & learning .
You can use the following steps to move your data, email, and users from Google Workspace to
Microsoft 365 for business. Use the articles and videos in each step to help you prepare and
configure your environment to migrate and use the migration tools available to you in the
Microsoft Admin center.
ﾉ Expand table
Step Description
Step Sign up for Microsoft 365 for Business
1
Step Set up Microsoft 365 for Google Workspace migration.
2 In this step you'll validate you own the domain you use in Google Workspace, add users, and set up
basic security for devices.
Step Set up security policies for Windows devices.
3 Windows security is set up separately in the Setup page of Microsoft 365 admin center.
Step Add your Google Workspace domain to Microsoft 365
4 After you verify you own the domain you're using for email, you and all the other users can start
using your old email to sign in to Microsoft 365 Business premium.
Step Install Office apps and Microsoft Teams.
5 All the people who have Microsoft 365 licenses should install the Microsoft 365 productivity apps on
their work devices.
Step Migrate everyone's email and calendar items.
6 In this step you'll run an Exchange Online migration to move everyone's email, calendar, and
contacts from Google Workspace.
Step Connect domain to Microsoft 365.
7 After you connect the domain email starts going to Microsoft 365, and all your Microsoft 365
services will work.
Step Use Migration Manager to move everyone's data from Drive to OneDrive and from shared Drives to
8 Team sites.
In this step, all the data in personal and shared Drives is copied and moved to Microsoft 365.
Step Discontinue Google Workspace but keep your domain.
9 If Google manages your domain, you can keep it there even after you discontinue your Google
Workspace subscription. You can also choose to move it to another DNS host if you want.

--- Page 2082 of 2193 ---
Last updated on 06/03/2024

--- Page 2083 of 2193 ---
How to sign up for a Microsoft 365 for
business plan - Admin Help
When you sign up for a Microsoft 365 for business plan, your team can begin using the latest
versions of Word, Excel, PowerPoint, and other apps in Microsoft 365. You can sign up and get
started with a Microsoft 365 for business plan in three easy steps.
Check out our small business content on Small business help & learning .
For video tutorials, visit Microsoft 365 small business help on YouTube.
Step 1. Choose a Microsoft 365 for business plan
Before you start a new subscription, put some thought into the plan you sign up for. Which plan
you choose depends on your specific needs. If you don't know which plan is right for your
organization, the Microsoft 365 plan chooser can help you decide. The plan chooser makes
recommendations based on your answers to questions like the size of your business, your field of
work, the devices you use, and what kind of features, IT support, and security you're looking for.
If you need extra help with deciding which plan is right for you, sales consultants are available to
answer your questions. Go to the Plans and pricing page and select one of the contact support
options listed on the side of the page.
Watch: Choose a Microsoft 365 subscription
Check out this video and others on our YouTube channel .
https://learn-video.azurefd.net/vod/player?id=0d0dbfb5-7a00-4ed5-b21e-
c5f5f69bed43&locale=en-us&embedUrl=%2Fmicrosoft-365%2Fadmin%2Fadmin-
overview%2Fsign-up-for-office-365
If you found this video helpful, check out the complete Microsoft 365 training series for small
businesses.
Step 2. Sign up for a free trial
When you're ready to sign up, go to the Plans and pricing page to choose the plan that you
want to try. After your one month free trial ends, your paid subscription begins and you're

--- Page 2084 of 2193 ---
automatically charged the applicable subscription fee.
You can cancel your free trial at any time to stop future charges. To cancel a free trial, turn off
recurring billing. You can continue using Microsoft 365 until the end of the free trial. If you don't
turn off recurring billing, your payment method is automatically charged after your free trial ends.
Watch: Sign up for Microsoft 365 Business Standard
https://learn-video.azurefd.net/vod/player?id=e1fe831f-c1a4-4d81-a475-
1d8036a047cb&locale=en-us&embedUrl=%2Fmicrosoft-365%2Fadmin%2Fadmin-
overview%2Fsign-up-for-office-365
Information we ask for when you sign up
When you sign up for a new subscription, we ask you for the following information.
Address and contact information
Country—The country/region where you plan to use the services. You can't change the
country/region later, even during the sign-up process. If you enter the wrong
country/region, you must restart the sign-up wizard.
Email and phone number—We ask for your contact information so we can contact you
about your subscription. For example, if you forget your password, we use this
information to you reset it. We also send your billing information to this email address.
７ Note
The email address you enter here is different from your Microsoft 365 email address
(your sign-in name). Because this is where we also send your billing information, we
recommend that you use an e-mail address that's appropriate for receiving business
email.
A username—The username you provide becomes your initial Microsoft 365 email address,
just to get you started quickly, and is the email address that you use to sign in. For example,
if your business name is Fourth Coffee, you might choose
rob@fourthcoffee.onmicrosoft.com for your username.
Most people add their own custom domain shortly after they sign up so they can start
receiving email at that address. For example, if you have a custom domain named

--- Page 2085 of 2193 ---
fourthcoffee.com, you can set up your email address as rob@fourthcoffee.com.
Payment information—You can pay for your subscription with a credit card.
Step 3. Set up your new subscription
The steps to set up your new subscription vary depending on the Microsoft 365 for business plan
that you signed up for. To learn how to set up your new subscription, see one of the following
articles:
Set up Microsoft 365 Business Basic
Set up Microsoft 365 Business Standard
Set up Microsoft 365 Business Premium
Set up Microsoft 365 apps for business
Related content
Microsoft 365 for business training videos (link page)
Last updated on 04/29/2026

--- Page 2086 of 2193 ---
Set up Microsoft 365 for Google
Workspace migration
Check out Microsoft 365 small business help on YouTube.
Watch: Set up Microsoft 365 for Google
Workspace migration
Check out this video and others on our YouTube channel .
https://learn-video.azurefd.net/vod/player?id=fb358a9f-84fa-4911-a211-
b8dd141fd5fc&locale=en-us&embedUrl=%2Fmicrosoft-365%2Fadmin%2Fmoveto-
microsoft-365%2Fset-up-microsoft-365-forgoogle
To migrate email, calendar, and contacts from Google Workspace, you need to set up Microsoft
365 Business Premium with a temporary domain until your business domain is ready to be used
with your subscription.
1. Sign in to office.com , and choose Admin.
2. In the Microsoft 365 admin center, choose Go to guided setup.
3. Optionally, install Microsoft 365 productivity apps, then select Continue.
4. Since you are migrating from Google Workspace, choose the default domain, and select Use
this domain.
5. Enter your user's names, and desired usernames, verify your email address so you can
receive your user's passwords, then select Add users and assign licenses.
6. Enter the email addresses where your users will receive their new credentials, select Send
email and continue.
7. Then Continue again to connect your temporary domain.
8. Optionally choose to inform users in your organization about Teams, then select Continue.
9. Expand and review your Android and iOS settings, then select Create mobile app
management policy.
10. Provide feedback, if desired, and choose Go to admin center.
The next step in the process will be to set up protections for your organization.
Last updated on 06/03/2024

--- Page 2087 of 2193 ---
Device management and application
management in Microsoft 365
Business Premium
Applies to: ✅ Microsoft 365 Business Premium, ✅ Microsoft 365 for Campaigns
An important part of your security strategy in Microsoft 365 Business Premium is protecting the
computers, tablets, and phones that are used to access company data. Business Premium
includes Microsoft Intune Plan 1, a comprehensive device management solution that allows you
to enroll, monitor, and manage devices. For more information, see Microsoft Intune overview.
Devices managed by Intune are typically company-owned devices, but they can also be personal
devices (also known as bring your own device or BYOD). In Microsoft 365 for Campaigns, most
devices are likely to be BYOD.
Intune provides two basic strategies for managing devices that access company data:
Mobile device management (MDM): The organization controls all aspects of the device.
After the device is enrolled in Intune, admins can install apps, allow or block enrollment by
platform, block personal devices, and more. If the device is ever lost or stolen, you can
remotely wipe the device. The enrolled device is said to be managed.
We always recommend MDM for company-owned devices. For instructions in this article,
see Mobile device management in Intune for device protection.
Mobile application management (MAM): The user controls the device, but the organization
controls access to company data on the device. You need to create policies that block users
from enrolling their personal devices in MDM. Application management policies prevent
users from copying business data from Microsoft 365 Apps to personal apps. If a device is
ever lost or stolen, you can remotely remove all organization data from managed apps. The
device is said to be unmanaged.
You can use MDM or MAM for personal devices. For MAM instructions in this article, see
Mobile app management in Intune for data protection.
Based on the nature of devices in your organization, you might choose one or both methods to
protect access to data in your organization.

--- Page 2088 of 2193 ---
The rest of this article describes the recommended options for MDM and MAM in Business
Premium.
Mobile device management using Intune for
device protection
In Business Premium, we recommend enrolling company-owned devices in Microsoft Intune as
described in the following subsections.
Step 1: Configure device enrollment restrictions for Intune
You might need to block users from enrolling certain types of eligible devices in Intune. For
example, you intend to use MAM for personal iOS and Android phones, so you want to prevent
users from enrolling those devices in Intune.
For instructions, see Create device platform restrictions.
Step 2: Configure device enrollment prerequisites for Intune
For the device types that you intend to enroll in MDM, you need to take care of some
prerequisites:
Apple: Get an Apple MDM push certificate
Android: Connect your Intune account to your managed Google Play account
Windows: Set up automatic enrollment for Windows devices
Enterprise State Roaming gives users a unified experience across their Windows devices
by synchronizing and storing specific user settings. For more information, see Enable
Enterprise State Roaming in Microsoft Entra ID.
 Tip
To configure Microsoft Edge enterprise sync to synchronize Microsoft Edge data, see
Configure Microsoft Edge enterprise sync.
Configure Intune to automatically install Microsoft 365 Apps on Windows devices. For
instructions, see Add Microsoft 365 Apps to Windows 10/11 devices with Microsoft
Intune.

--- Page 2089 of 2193 ---
Windows Autopilot uses a supported version of Windows Semi-Annual Enterprise
Channel to set up PCs with business critical apps, policies, and features (for example,
BitLocker) before you give the PCs to users. Autopilot can also reset, repurpose, and
recover Windows devices. For more information, see Overview of Windows Autopilot.
Step 3: Configure compliance policy settings in Intune
Compliance policy settings are organization-wide and determine how Intune treats devices with
no device compliance policies (also known as compliance policies) assigned. Possible values are:
Mark devices with no compliance policy assigned as > Compliant: Devices are considered
compliant until verified as not compliant after a device compliance policy is assigned. This
value is the default.
Mark devices with no compliance policy assigned as > Not compliant: Devices are
considered not compliant until verified as compliant after a device compliance policy is
assigned.
Typically, we recommend the default value Compliant. But, if you're using device-based
Conditional Access policies as described in the next section, and you want to ensure that only
compliant devices are ever allowed to access company resources, use the value Mark devices
with no compliance policy assigned as > Not compliant.
For more information, see Compliance policy settings.
Step 4: Create device compliance policies in Intune
We recommend creating a device compliance policy (also known as a compliance policy) for
every type of device you plan on enrolling in MDM. The compliance policy for each device type
specifies the minimum configuration that allows access to company data. The policies aren't
enforced until a corresponding device-based Conditional Access policy is applied to the device.
Here are our recommendations:
Windows devices:
Compliance settings:
Device health: Set the following options to Require:
BitLocker
Secure Boot
Code integrity
System security:

--- Page 2090 of 2193 ---
Device security: Set the following options to Require:
Firewall
Trusted platform module (TPM)
Antivirus
Antispyware
Defender: Set the following options to Require:
Microsoft Defender Antimalware
Microsoft Defender Antimalware security intelligence up-to-date
Real-time protection
Actions for non-compliance:
Mark device noncompliant: Change the Schedule (days after noncompliance) value
from Immediately to 1.
Assignments: For Included groups, select Add all users.
Other device types: Select the following options where available:
Require a password to unlock the device.
Require device encryption.
Require code integrity.
For more information, see Create a compliance policy in Microsoft Intune.
Step 5: Create device-based Conditional Access policies
We recommend the following device-based Conditional Access policies for Intune:
Require MFA for Intune device enrollment
Block unknown or unsupported device platforms
Require approved client apps or an app protection policy
Require a compliant device, Microsoft Entra hybrid joined device, or MFA for all users
Step 6: Enroll devices in Intune
After you do the previous steps to prepare and configure Intune, now users can enroll their
devices. For instructions, see the following articles:
iOS/iPadOS: Set up personal iOS device for work or school
Android: Enroll device with Android work profile
Linux: Enroll Linux device in Intune
macOS: Enroll your macOS device using the Company Portal app
Windows: Enroll Windows 10/11 devices in Intune

--- Page 2091 of 2193 ---
More options for MDM
View and monitor device health in the Defender portal: In Defender for Business or Intune
in Business Premium, you can view device details, such as health state and exposure level
for all onboarded devices. You can also take actions on devices, such as running an antivirus
scan or starting an automated investigation. For more information, see Manage devices in
Microsoft Defender for Business and Review detected threats.
On managed devices, users can take the following steps to protect their devices:
Set active hours on Windows devices: Antivirus, anti-malware, and other threat protection
capabilities are automatically installed, configured, and regularly updated on onboarded
devices. Updates that require device restarts can be done after your working hours as
defined by the active hours setting on Windows devices. For more information, Keep your
PC up to date .
Mobile app management in Intune for data protection
In Business Premium, mobile app management (MAM) is available to protect access to company
data on personal devices without the full device management of MDM. The following subsections
describe the requirements for configuring MAM.
Step 1: Configure device enrollment restrictions for MAM
Personal devices that you plan on protecting with MAM can't be enrolled in Intune (MDM). To
prevent specific device types from enrolling in MDM, see Create device platform restrictions.
Step 2: Deploy app protection policies in MAM
App protection policies (APP) enable MAM on iOS/iPadOS and Android devices without requiring
enrollment of the devices in Intune (MDM). For example:
Require a PIN to open Microsoft Outlook on the device.
Prevent saving company data locally on the device.
For more information, see How to create and assign app protection policies.
Our basic recommendations include:
Create policies for both iOS/iPadOS and Android devices.
Target policy to: Select Core Microsoft Apps (which includes Outlook).

--- Page 2092 of 2193 ---
Backup org data to iTunes and iCloud backups: Select Block.
Send org data to other apps: Select Policy managed apps.
Save copies of org data: Select Block.
Allow user to save copies to selected services: Select OneDrive and SharePoint.
Our recommendations for distinct security tiers are described in Data protection framework using
app protection policies.
More options for MAM
Multifactor authentication (MFA) and a supported authenticator app like the Microsoft
Authenticator app are required by default for all Business Premium accounts. For more
information, see Multifactor authentication for Microsoft 365.
Otherwise, the device owner is responsible for protecting and maintaining their own device in
MAM scenarios. They can take the following steps:
Turn on encryption and firewall protection. Disk encryption protects data when devices are
lost or stolen. Firewall protection helps protect devices from unwanted contact by other
computers on the internet or other networks. For more information, see Protect unmanaged
devices.
Make sure antivirus/antimalware software is installed and up to date: For more
information, see Stay protected with Windows Security .
Keep up with operating system and application updates: To learn more, see Keep your PC
up to date .
Next steps
Set up information protection capabilities
Protect users against phishing and other attacks in Microsoft 365 for business
Collaborate and share securely
Last updated on 01/08/2026

--- Page 2093 of 2193 ---
Add your Google Workspace domain to
Microsoft 365
Check out all of our small business content on Small business help & learning .
Check out Microsoft 365 small business help on YouTube.
Watch: Add Google Workspace domain
Check out this video and others on our YouTube channel .
https://learn-video.azurefd.net/vod/player?id=0ede3d98-5bb2-4f48-81d8-
3d5634125446&locale=en-us&embedUrl=%2Fmicrosoft-365%2Fadmin%2Fmoveto-
microsoft-365%2Fadd-google-domain
Add your Google Workspace domain to Microsoft 365 for business so you can keep using your
business email address.
1. Go to the Microsoft 365 admin center .
2. In the Microsoft 365 admin center, in the left nav, select Show all > Settings > Domains .
3. Choose Add domain, enter your domain name then select Use this domain.
4. Choose, Add a TXT record to the domains DNS records, select Continue, and copy the TXT
value.
5. Go back to the formerly Google Admin, now Squarespace Console , choose Domains,
Manage domains, View Details, Manage domain, DNS, and then scroll down to Custom
resource records.
6. Open the record type drop-down, choose TXT, paste the TXT value you copied then select
Add.
The update usually takes effect within a few minutes but may take up to 48 hours.
7. Return to the admin center , select Verify, and then Close.
8. To set your domain as the primary email for your users, in the left nav, select Users > Active
users .

--- Page 2094 of 2193 ---
9. Choose a user, select Manage username and email, Edit, select your domain from the
dropdown, then select Done and Save changes.
10. Repeat this process for each user.
When you're finished, you'll be ready to install apps in Microsoft 365 and migrate your
email and calendar items to Microsoft 365.
Last updated on 08/29/2024

--- Page 2095 of 2193 ---
Install Microsoft 365 apps
Summarize this article for me
After you set up Microsoft 365, install Microsoft 365 apps on your Mac, PC, or mobile devices.
Watch: Install Microsoft 365 apps
This video shows how to install Microsoft 365 apps on a Windows device.
https://learn-video.azurefd.net/vod/player?id=dc089097-90e3-4e20-a10b-
985e58240101&locale=en-us&embedUrl=%2Fmicrosoft-
365%2Fadmin%2Fsetup%2Finstall-applications
Install Microsoft 365 apps in Windows
Microsoft 365 apps appear in your Start menu. If you don't see them, follow these steps to
install Microsoft 365 apps in Windows:
1. Sign in to the Microsoft 365 Apps by using your work account.
2. In the upper-right corner, select Install apps, and then select Microsoft 365 apps.
3. The My account page opens. Under Office apps & devices, select Install Office.
4. OfficeSetup.exe downloads to your Downloads folder. After the download finishes, open
OfficeSetup.exe to start the installation.
5. When prompted with Do you want to allow this app to make changes to your device?,
select Yes to start the installation.
6. The installation continues and might take several minutes to complete. When it
completes, the You're all set! window displays. Select Close.
7. After installation, the apps appear in the Start menu and are ready to use.
Learn more about installing Microsoft 365 apps
The following articles have additional information on installing Microsoft 365 apps:
Microsoft 365 Apps
Download and install or reinstall Microsoft 365 or Office 2024 on a PC or Mac .

--- Page 2096 of 2193 ---
Microsoft Project, Microsoft Visio, Skype for Business
Install Project .
Install Visio or access Visio for the web .
Install Skype for Business .
Microsoft 365 on mobile devices
Set up Office apps and email on a mobile device .
Add email account in Microsoft Outlook
Add an email account to Outlook for Windows .
Add an email account to Outlook for Mac .
Microsoft 365 for business
Upgrade your Microsoft 365 for business users to the latest apps.
Related content
Troubleshoot installing Office and Microsoft 365 .
Small business help & learning .
Microsoft 365 small business help on YouTube .
Last updated on 02/19/2026

--- Page 2097 of 2193 ---
Migrate business email and calendar from
Google Workspace
７ Note
The videos and content in this article are meant to give customers a high-level overview of
the process of how to use an automated batch migration in the Exchange admin center to
migrate your users email, contacts, and calendars from Google Workspace. Use the links to
resources for more detailed information.
Overview of the using an automated batch migration to
migrate from Google Workspace
Check out this video and others on our YouTube channel .
https://learn-video.azurefd.net/vod/player?id=8db7f36d-9c5d-4512-a9a4-
631ddad580cd&locale=en-us&embedUrl=%2Fmicrosoft-365%2Fadmin%2Fmoveto-
microsoft-365%2Fmigrate-email
You can use the batch migration tool in the Exchange admin center to migrate email, contacts,
and calendars from Google Workspace to Microsoft 365. With it, you can:
Keep both environments active.
Migrate groups of email users to Microsoft 365 over time.
Close your Google Workspace environment when you're done moving your business.
Recommendations for migrating from
Google Workspace
An automated batch migration does some of the migration tasks for you, so it's
recommended over the manual batch migration. For more detailed information, see
Perform a Google Workspace migration to Microsoft 365.
７ Note

--- Page 2098 of 2193 ---
You can also migrate your email from Google Workspace to Microsoft 365 through an
IMAP migration. You should compare methods to determine which is more suitable for
migrating your email.
It's recommended that you get help from Microsoft or from a partner when planning to
migrate with either of the above methods.
If you're a VSB (very small business) where you have a few users, you should migrate your
email using a different method, such as importing to Outlook through a PST file .
Prerequisites for automated batch migration from
Google Workspace
Check out this video and others on our YouTube channel .
https://learn-video.azurefd.net/vod/player?id=76322de7-b15d-4ca4-824d-
e6c5d7c59c2c&locale=en-us&embedUrl=%2Fmicrosoft-365%2Fadmin%2Fmoveto-
microsoft-365%2Fmigrate-email
To successfully use the automated batch migration tool, it's important to correctly complete all of
the prerequisite tasks. For more detailed information, see Google Workspace migration
prerequisites.
These tasks include:
Creating a subdomain to correctly route email to users who were migrated to Microsoft 365.
Creating a subdomain to correctly route email from users you migrated to Microsoft 365
back to users who are in your Google Workspace environment.
Adding all mail user accounts to Microsoft 365 for users you're migrating.
Verifying that the Google migration admin account has the correct permissions.
７ Note
Completing the prerequisite tasks may require you to log into your domain hosts to create
subdomains and update your DNS records. If you aren't comfortable doing this, you should
look for assistance with this.
Create a subdomain for email going to Microsoft 365

--- Page 2099 of 2193 ---
1. Go to the Google Workspace admin console.
2. Select Add a domain.
3. Enter a domain name for your subdomain, such as m365.contoso.com.
4. Select User alias domain, select Add domain and start verification, and then select
Continue. Follow the instructions to verify domain ownership.
Domain verification usually takes just a few minutes, but it can take up to 48 hours.
5. Go to the Microsoft 365 admin center.
6. In the Microsoft 365 admin center, in the left nav, select Show all, select Settings, select
Domains, and then Add domain.
7. Enter the subdomain you previously created, then select Use this domain.
8. To connect the domain, select Continue.
9. Select Add DNS records. Depending on your domain host provider, Microsoft 365 tries to
update your DNS records for the domain.
10. When complete, select Done.
Create a subdomain for mail routing to Google Workspace
1. Return to the Google Workspace admin console.
2. Select Add a domain.
3. Enter a domain name for your subdomain, such as gsuite.contoso.com.
4. Select User alias domain, select Add domain and start verification, and then select
Continue. Follow the instructions to verify domain ownership.
Provision mail user accounts for users you're migrating
1. In the Exchange admin center, select Contacts, then Add a mail user.
2. On the Set up basic information page, enter the information about the user you want to
migrate, such as Name, display name, etc.

--- Page 2100 of 2193 ---
For External email address use the domain you created for mail routing to Google
Workspace (for example, gsuite.contoso.com).
For Domain, select the primary domain you're using.
3. Select Next, and repeat this process for each user you're migrating.
Add proxy email addresses for users you're migrating
In this procedure, you add a proxy email address for each user for routing email to their
Microsoft 365 routing domain.
1. In the Exchange admin center, select Mailboxes, then select a user.
2. In the user properties, select Manage email address types.
3. For Email address type, select SMTP.
4. Enter the user's alias, and from the drop-down menu select the Microsoft 365 routing
domain (for example, m365.contoso.com).
5. Select OK, then Save.
6. Repeat the process for each user.
Verify that your Google migration admin has the
required permissions
In the Google admin console, verify that your Google migration admin has the following roles
assigned to them:
Project creator
Servicer account creator
Migrate your email, contacts, and calendars from
Google Workspace
Check out this video and others on our YouTube channel .
https://learn-video.azurefd.net/vod/player?id=86b7d49a-83dc-43fe-8416-
0fc5d1ad6804&locale=en-us&embedUrl=%2Fmicrosoft-365%2Fadmin%2Fmoveto-
microsoft-365%2Fmigrate-email

--- Page 2101 of 2193 ---
After successfully completing all the prerequisites, you can now use the batch migration tool to
migrate your users from Google Workspace to Microsoft 365. Here's a summary of the required
steps. For more detailed information, see Perform an automated Google Workspace migration to
Microsoft 365.
1. In the Exchange admin center, select Migration.
2. On the Migration batches page, select Add migration batch.
3. Give the migration batch a unique name, and from the Select the mailbox migration path
menu, select Migration to Exchange Online. Then select Next.
4. For the Migration type, select Google Workspace (Gmail) migration. Then select Next.
5. On the Prerequisites for Google Workspace migration page, select Start.
6. Sign in with your Google admin account and password.
7. On the EAC Migration wants access to your Google Account page, select Continue.
8. EAC Migration involves four required tasks in Google Workspace that are needed for
migration.
9. When all four tasks have been complete, take note of the ClientID and Scope values. Then
select Link.
10. On the API Clients page, select Add new.
11. Copy the ClientID and Scope values from the migration page, and paste then into the
corresponding fields (Client ID and OAuth scopes) in the Add a new client page. Then
select Authorize.
12. On the Prerequisites for Google Workspace migration page, select Next.
13. On the Set a migration endpoint page, select Create a new migration endpoint, then Next.
14. Enter a unique Migration endpoint name, and use the default values for Maximum
concurrent migrations and Maximum concurrent incremental syncs, then select Next.
15. On the Gmail migration configuration page, enter the email address of the Google admin
account you're using to perform the migration.
16. Select Import JSON and then browse to the location where the JSON key file was created
and downloaded to your local computer. The JSON key file was created during the

--- Page 2102 of 2193 ---
automated tasks configuration part of the migration (step 8) and should be found in your
local Downloads folder. Select the file, select Open, and then Next.
17. Create a CSV file with a list of the mailboxes you want to migrate. Make sure the file follows
this format:
CSV
EmailAddress
adeyoung@contoso.com
awilber@contoso.com
18. On the Add user mailboxes page, select Import CSV file and then choose the CSV file you
created containing the users emails you want to migrate. Select Next.
19. On the Move configuration page, enter the name of your target delivery domain. This was
the subdomain you created in the prerequisite steps that was for email routing to Microsoft
365 (for example, m365.contoso.com). Then select Next.
20. On the Schedule batch migration page, you can:
a. Enter the email address of people you want a report to be sent.
b. Select how you want the batch to be started (manually, automatically, or at a specific
time and date).
c. Select how you want the batch to be ended (manually, automatically, or at a specific time
and date).
21. Select Save. When the migration batch runs successfully, select Done.
22. In the Exchange admin center, select Migration. On the Migration batches page, you can
see the status of your batch migration.
23. When the batch shows a status of Synced, select Complete migration batch, then select
Confirm.
24. Assign Exchange licenses to your migrated users, and have them check to see if their email,
contacts, and calendars had migrated successfully.
Last updated on 11/12/2025

--- Page 2103 of 2193 ---
Connect your domain to Microsoft 365
for business
Check out all of our small business content on Small business help & learning .
Check out Microsoft 365 small business help on YouTube.
Watch: Connect your domain to Microsoft 365
Check out this video and others on our YouTube channel .
https://learn-video.azurefd.net/vod/player?id=b9007f8d-dd2b-4ceb-bf40-
6529c45ad321&locale=en-us&embedUrl=%2Fmicrosoft-365%2Fadmin%2Fmoveto-
microsoft-365%2Fconnect-domain-tom365
Once you've set up Microsoft 365 and moved your email data from Google Workspace, you can
connect your domain to Microsoft 365.
First you will need to delete existing DNS records from Google, and then we can add new DNS
records from Microsoft 365.
1. Sign into your Google Workspace admin console at admin.google.com .
2. Select Domains, Manage domains, View details, Manage domain, then DNS in the left nav.
3. Scroll down to Synthetic records, open Google Workspace, select Delete, then Delete
again.
4. Scroll down to Custom resource records and delete any existing DNS records that appear,
including any you may have created previously for Microsoft 365.
5. Go to the Microsoft 365 admin center .
6. In the left nav, choose, Show all > Settings > Domains .
7. Then choose your default domain.
8. Select Continue setup, then, to connect your domain, choose Continue.
9. Scroll down to view the DNS records that need to be copied to Google.

--- Page 2104 of 2193 ---
10. Open MX Records, and under Points to address or value, copy the record.
11. Return to Google, and in the Custom resource records section, open the record type
dropdown and select MX.
12. In the Data field, paste the record you copied.
13. Then select Add.
14. Repeat the process for CNAME and TXT records and add the values in the Google DNS
management page.
15. Return to the Microsoft 365 admin center and select Continue.
Your domain setup is complete.
Last updated on 03/16/2023

--- Page 2105 of 2193 ---
Migrate Google files to Microsoft 365 for
business with Migration Manager
７ Note
When you move to Microsoft 365 for business from Google Workspace, you'll want to
migrate your files from Google Drive. You can use the SharePoint Migration Manager to
move files from personal and shared Drives. This video and summary of the required steps
gives you an overview of how to do this. For more information, see Migrate Google
Workspace to Microsoft 365 with Migration Manager.
Watch: Migrate Google files to Microsoft 365
for business
Check out this video and others on our YouTube channel .
https://learn-video.azurefd.net/vod/player?id=521941e5-33c4-402c-85c2-
1abee2d3854b&locale=en-us&embedUrl=%2Fmicrosoft-365%2Fadmin%2Fmoveto-
microsoft-365%2Fmigrate-files-migration-manager
７ Note
Migration Manager will make a copy of the files and move the copies to Microsoft 365 for
business. The original files will stay in Google Drives also.
Before you start
All the users should have signed in to Microsoft 365 for business and set up their OneDrive. To do
this, go to office.com , sign in with your Microsoft 365 for business credentials, and then choose
OneDrive.
７ Note
Currently, Migration Manager isn't available for Google on any of the Government clouds.

--- Page 2106 of 2193 ---
Install the Microsoft 365 Migration App
Use the following steps to install the Microsoft 365 Migration app in your Google Workspace
environment.
1. In the SharePoint Admin Center, select Migration.
2. On the Migration page, in the Google Workspace section, select Get Started.
3. On the Google Drive migration page, select Connect to Google Workspace.
4. On the Install the migration app page, select Install and authorize.
5. On the Google Workspace Marketplace page, select Sign in and enter your Google
Workspace admin credentials.
6. Select Admin Install.
7. Select Continue.
8. Select the checkbox, then select Finish.
9. When the installation completes, select Done.
10. Return to the Install the migration app page, and select Next.
11. Select Sign in to Google Workspace, and then enter your Google Workspace admin
credentials.
12. Select Finish.
Select and scan your drives
After installing the Microsoft 365 Migration App in your Google environment, you can now select
the drives you want to migrate and then scan them to make sure that they're safe to copy to
Microsoft 365.
1. On the Drives tab, select the Google drives you want to copy to Microsoft 365.
2. Select Scan. When the scan completes, the drives will show a scan status of Ready to
migrate.
3. Select Copy to migration.
Start the migration
After selecting and scanning the drives you want to migrate, use the following steps to migrate
them.
1. On the Drive migrations tab, verify the destination paths of the drives you want to migrate.
Edit them if needed.
2. Select the drives you want to migrate, then select Migrate.

--- Page 2107 of 2193 ---
3. When migration successfully completes, each drive will show a Migration status of
Completed.
Last updated on 06/03/2024

--- Page 2108 of 2193 ---
Cancel Google Workspace subscription
Check out all of our small business content on Small business help & learning .
1. Sign in to Google Admin and go to Billing.
2. In the Subscriptions list, choose your G Suite subscription, select More, and then select
Cancel subscription.
3. On the next page, select Cancel subscription again to confirm.
） Important
When you cancel your subcription, it's canceled immediately and you can't undo this
action.
７ Note
You might not see Domain Registration in your Subscriptions list if your DNS host provider
isn't Google domains.

--- Page 2109 of 2193 ---
Last updated on 11/12/2025

--- Page 2110 of 2193 ---
Change the sharing settings for a site
You must be at least a SharePoint Administrator in Microsoft 365 to change the sharing settings
for a site. Site owners can't change these settings.
The steps in this article apply to team sites, communication sites, and classic sites. To learn how to
change the external sharing setting for a user's OneDrive, see Change the external sharing setting
for a user's OneDrive. For info about changing your organization-level settings, see Manage
sharing settings. Guest sharing settings for Microsoft 365 Groups and Teams affect connected
SharePoint sites.
For detailed information about how to set up guest access for a site, see Collaborate with guests
in a site.
） Important
Microsoft Entra external collaboration settings determine who can invite guests in your
organization for site sharing (always) and file and folder sharing (if Azure B2B collaboration
is enabled). Be sure to review Microsoft Entra guest access settings as part of your
SharePoint and OneDrive sharing setup.
How do I change the external sharing setting for a site?
To change the external sharing setting:
1. Go to Active sites in the new SharePoint admin center , and sign in with an account that
has admin permissions for your organization.
2. In the left column, select a site. (For a channel site, select the link in the Channel sites
column and then select the site.)
3. On the Settings tab, select More sharing settings.
4. Select an external sharing option (see the table in the next section).

--- Page 2111 of 2193 ---
5. If you want to limit the sharing of this site by domain, select the Limit sharing by domain
check box by expanding Advanced settings for external sharing, and add the domains that
you want to allow or block.
） Important
Allowed or blocked domains in Microsoft Entra ID also affect SharePoint and
OneDrive site sharing (always) and file and folder sharing (if Azure B2B collaboration is
enabled). Be sure to review Microsoft Entra collaboration restrictions as part of your
SharePoint and OneDrive sharing setup.
6. If you want to change the guest access expiration setting for this site, clear the Same as
organization-level setting check boxes and set the values that you want to use for this site.

--- Page 2112 of 2193 ---
7. If you want to change the default sharing link type or permissions for this site, clear the
Same as organization-level setting check boxes and set the values that you want to use for
this site. For more info, see Change the default sharing link for a site.
8. Select Save.
Which sharing option should I select?
ﾉ Expand table
Select this If you want to:
option:
Anyone Allow site owners and others with full control permission to share the site with people
who authenticate. Allow site users to decide when sharing files and folders to require
authentication or allow unauthenticated people to access the item. Anyone links to files
and folders can be freely forwarded.
New and existing Allow site owners and others with full control permission to share the site with people
guests outside the organization. These people need to sign in and are added to the directory.

--- Page 2113 of 2193 ---
Select this If you want to:
option:
Allow site users to share files and folders with people who aren't in the organization's
directory.
Existing guests Allow sharing with only people already in your directory. These users exist in your
directory because they previously accepted sharing invitations or because they were
manually added. (These users have #EXT# in their user principal name.)
Only people in Prevent all site users from sharing any site content externally.
your organization
The available settings depend on your organization-level setting. If you enable external sharing
for a site and later turn it off for your organization, external sharing becomes unavailable at the
site level and any shared links stop working. If you turn it back on for the organization, the site
sharing setting returns to what it was before and the shared links resume working.
７ Note
You might have site content shared with a Microsoft 365 group that has guest members, and
the group settings prevent guest members from accessing group resources. In this case,
even if you turn on external sharing for the site, guests of the group might not be able to
access site content. To enable or disable Microsoft 365 Group guest member access, see
Manage guest access in Microsoft 365 Groups.
What are the default site sharing settings?
The following table shows the default sharing setting for each site type.
ﾉ Expand table
Site type Default sharing setting
Classic Only people in your organization
OneDrive Anyone
Group-connected sites New and existing guests if the Microsoft 365 Groups setting Let group
(including Teams) owners add people outside the organization to groups is On; otherwise
Existing guests only
Communication Only people in your organization

--- Page 2114 of 2193 ---
Site type Default sharing setting
Modern sites with no group Only people in your organization
(#STS3 TeamSite)
７ Note
The root communication site (tenant-name.sharepoint.com) has a default sharing setting of
Anyone.
Related articles
Best practices for sharing files and folders with unauthenticated users
Create a more secure guest sharing environment
File collaboration in SharePoint with Microsoft 365
Stop sharing files or folders or change permissions
Last updated on 05/07/2026

--- Page 2115 of 2193 ---
Share Microsoft 365 calendars with people
outside your organization
Your users might need to schedule meetings with people outside your organization. To simplify
the process of finding mutually agreeable meeting times, Microsoft 365 enables you to make
calendars available to people outside your organization. These people need to see free and
busy times for users in your organization, but don't have user accounts for your Microsoft 365
organization.
As the admin, you can enable external calendar sharing for all users in your organization. Once
sharing is enabled, users can use Outlook on the web to share their calendars with anyone
inside or outside the organization. People inside the organization can view the shared calendar
along with their own calendar. People outside the organization are sent a URL that they can
use to view the calendar. Users decide when to share, how much to share, and when to keep
their calendars private.
７ Note
If you want to share calendar information with an on-premises Exchange organization, the
Exchange administrator must configure an authentication relationship (federation)
between the on-premises environment and Exchange Online. Federation requires
supported Exchange versions and specific configuration. For more information, see
Sharing.
Enable calendar sharing in the Microsoft 365
admin center
1. Sign in to the Microsoft 365 admin center .
2. From the left navigation bar, select … Show all, and then select Settings to expand it.
3. Under Settings, select Org Settings.
4. On the Services tab of the Org Settings page, select Calendar.
5. In the Calendar pane:
To allow your users to share their calendars with external Microsoft 365 or Exchange
users, select Let your users share their calendars with people outside of your
organization who have Office 365 or Exchange.

--- Page 2116 of 2193 ---
To allow sharing with people who don't sign in, select Allow anyone to access
calendars with an email invitation. This option only becomes available after you
enable sharing with external Microsoft 365 or Exchange users.
If you allow anonymous users outside of your organization access to your users'
calendars, choose what type of calendar information to make available to your
users:
Show calendar free/busy information with time only.
Show calendar free/busy information with time, subject, and location.
Show all calendar appointment information.
How users share their calendars
After you enable external calendar sharing, users can choose whether to share their own
calendars with external people. Users control who they share with, what level of detail they
share, and when to stop sharing.
For step-by-step instructions, see Share your calendar in Outlook on the web .
Last updated on 03/16/2026

--- Page 2117 of 2193 ---
Engineering Direct portal in the Microsoft
365 admin center
The Engineering Direct portal within the Microsoft 365 admin center is designed to provide Office
Engineering Direct (OED) customers with an enhanced engineering experience. This article
provides an overview of the portal's features, how to access it, and its functionality.
The Engineering Direct portal capabilities include:
Delivery metrics to help highlight what OED provides and how you use the service
Insights into support tickets that have been raised to the product group
Self-service diagnostics to empower you with immediate insights and resolutions
Features and diagnostics suggested by our OED customers
７ Note
The portal is available to all OED customers and their in-scope tenants at no additional
charge. Permissions are currently granted to anyone within your tenant with an RBAC (role-
based access control) support role.
Accessing the Engineering Direct portal
The Engineering Direct portal is located under Support within the Microsoft 365 admin center. To
access the portal, follow these steps:
1. Navigate to the Microsoft 365 admin center.
2. Select Support.
3. Select Engineering Direct to enter the portal.

--- Page 2118 of 2193 ---

Related content
Overview of Engineering Direct portal
Engagements pivot in Engineering Direct portal
Diagnostics pivot in Engineering Direct portal
Design change requests in Engineering Direct portal
Last updated on 11/21/2025

--- Page 2119 of 2193 ---
Overview of Engineering Direct
Once in the portal, you'll see the Overview page. This page contains several key elements:
ACE Contact: If you have an Advanced Cloud Engineer (ACE) assigned, you'll see an ACE tile
with primary contact information. This lists your ACE email address with a clickable option
to start an email. The tile won't be visible to customers without an assigned engineer.
Insights: Key Metrics: This tile lists both your engineering escalations and those escalations
that have been resolved in the last six months. An issue is considered an 'engineering
escalation' once it has been raised to and assigned to a Microsoft engineer (either through
our support organization, or raised through the Escalate to Engineering feature).
Total escalations include open or closed tickets
Active escalations include only those tickets that are open
Customer Advisory Board (CAB): The CAB tile will list the last and next CAB events as well
as the last and next community calls. This is for information purposes; registrations and
calendar blockers will continue to be provided separately through existing process channels.
Insights: Escalation Trend Per Week by Status: A monthly view of escalations by open and
closed for the last six months. This is a focused view of all reactive issues, filtered by all
issues that have a Microsoft engineering element.
Request A Feature: Allows you to submit feedback or a request to the Engineering Direct
Portal team. Feedback can be both related to the portal itself and its functionality, and any
broader engineering features you would like to see in Engineering Direct. Feature requests
submitted through this method are visible to users in the MyFeedback section of the
feedback portal.

--- Page 2120 of 2193 ---

Related content
Engagements overview
Last updated on 11/19/2025

--- Page 2121 of 2193 ---
Engagements in Engineering Direct
The Engagements pivot in Engineering direct offers a centralized overview of all customer-
specific engagements with Microsoft. This section allows users to request and track engineering-
led escalations, post-incident analyses, Business Process Awareness (BPAs), and Customer
Advisory Board (CAB) discussions. Each engagement type provides detailed insights, status
updates, and filtering options to help manage support efficiently.
Engineering Escalations
The Engineering Escalations view under Engineering Direct provides visibility into all engineering-
level support escalations raised for your tenant. These include cases submitted directly by your
organization through the Escalate to Engineering feature, and issues elevated by Microsoft
Support when advanced troubleshooting is required. This view helps monitor escalation activity,
review trends, and gain insights into how issues are distributed across products, severity levels,
and sources.
Overview of Engineering Escalations
At the top of the page, several visual summaries provide quick insights into your tenant's
escalation activity:
Total escalations - The total number of escalations associated with your tenant.
Open escalations - The number of currently active or unresolved escalations.
Escalations by product - A workload-based view that shows how many escalations relate to
services such as Microsoft Exchange, SharePoint, or Teams.
Customer raised escalations - Displays the number of escalations initiated directly by your
organization.
Distribution by escalation source - A chart showing whether escalations were raised by
your organization or Microsoft Support.
Distribution by severity - Summarizes escalations by severity level (Severity 1, A, B, or C).
Escalations per week by status - A trend chart showing how many escalations were created
and closed each week.
７ Note

--- Page 2122 of 2193 ---
These insights update automatically as new escalations are raised or resolved.
Engineering Escalations report
Below the overview section, the engineering escalations report provides a detailed, filterable
table of all active and historical escalations for your tenant. You can use this table to review case
progress, assigned severity, and escalation sources.
You can:
Search by title, ticket number, or keywords.
Filter by status, product, severity, or escalation source.
Refresh the data to view the most recent updates.
Export the results for reporting or analysis.
ﾉ Expand table
Column Description
Title The name or brief summary of the escalation.
Created by The user who initiated the escalation.
Ticket The unique escalation identifier.
Severity Indicates the escalation's priority (for example, A, B, C, or 1).
Escalation date When the escalation was created.
Status The current state of the escalation(Open, Closed, In Progress).
Escalation Identifies whether the escalation originated from your organization or from Microsoft
source Support.
 Tip
Combine filters and charts to spot recurring service request trends or identify products that
require the most attention.
Benefits of Engineering Escalations
The Engineering Escalations view helps your organization:

--- Page 2123 of 2193 ---
Maintain visibility into engineering-level escalation
Understand patterns across products and severity levels.
Identify and manage high-impact issues efficiently.
Improve collaboration with Microsoft support and engineering teams.
Business Project Awareness (BPAs)
The Business Project Awareness (BPA) feature in the Engineering Direct portal enables
organizations to notify Microsoft about upcoming business activities or infrastructure changes
that might impact their Microsoft 365 services. During these periods, Microsoft's Service
Engineering team provides elevated monitoring and proactive engagement to help identify and
mitigate potential risks.

Examples of qualifying projects include:
Major datacenter or network changes
Mergers, acquisitions, or divestitures
Large-scale product launches or migrations
Tenant rebranding or restructuring
Submit a new BPA request
If you're planning a significant business event, you can submit a BPA request to inform
Microsoft's Service Engineering team in advance.

--- Page 2124 of 2193 ---

1. In the Enhanced engagements section, go to Engagements > BPAs.
2. Select Submit new BPA.
3. Enter the required details about your planned activity, including:
Project title and Project details
Start and end dates

--- Page 2125 of 2193 ---
Products (for example, Exchange, SharePoint, Teams)
Primary contact information
4. Review your information and select Submit.
Once submitted, your request will appear in the BPA overview table with its current status.
BPA overview
The BPA overview section provides a summary of all BPA requests submitted for your tenant.
It includes:
Total BPAs and Active BPAs
Active BPAs by workload (Exchange, SharePoint, Teams)
A searchable and filterable list of BPA requests
You can:
Filter BPAs by status or workload
Export BPA data for reporting or tracking
Refresh the view to see the latest submissions
Each BPA entry includes key details:
ﾉ Expand table
Column Description
Project title Name of the submitted business activity
Ticket ID Unique identifier for the BPA request
Start/ End date Duration of the planned event
Product Microsoft 365 workload impacted
Created by Person who submitted the BPA
Contact Primary contact for follow-up
Status Current state of the request (for example, Submitted, In review, Closed)
By clicking the project title, a flyout would be shown form right side of the portal, which would
allow you to view BPA request details (for example, project details).

--- Page 2126 of 2193 ---

Active BPAs by workload

--- Page 2127 of 2193 ---
The Active BPAs by Workload chart provides a quick visual summary of ongoing BPA
engagements by product area. This helps you identify which workloads currently have active
awareness requests and plan accordingly.
Customer Advisory Board (CAB)
The Customer Advisory Board offers you a prioritized voice into the evolution of Microsoft 365
through various virtual and in-person engagements with engineering, designed to facilitate
roadmap discussions and feedback loops into all in-scope product teams.

CAB overview
The CAB overview section provides quick access to recent and upcoming engagement details.
Last completed event - Displays the most recent in-person CAB event and links to its
feedback form.
Upcoming CAB event - Shows the next scheduled in-person CAB session.
Last completed community call - Displays the most recent virtual community call and
provides a feedback link.
Upcoming community call - Highlights the next scheduled community call.

--- Page 2128 of 2193 ---
If a CAB event or call hasn't been scheduled yet, the corresponding date and details won't be
displayed. These fields automatically update once new schedule information becomes available. If
a CAB event or call hasn't been scheduled yet, the corresponding date and details won't be
displayed. These fields automatically update once new schedule information becomes available.
７ Note
CAB event and call details are refreshed periodically. When no upcoming events are listed, it
means the schedule is still being finalized and will appear once available.
Upcoming CAB schedule
The Upcoming CAB schedule lists all planned engagements with Microsoft 365 engineering
teams. Each entry provides event details, topics, audience, and registration information. You can:
View upcoming and past CAB sessions.
Export the schedule for tracking and internal coordination.
Register for upcoming sessions directly from the portal.
Each schedule entry includes:
ﾉ Expand table
Column Description
Column Start and end dates for the CAB engagement
Dates Title of the CAB session or community call
Event Microsoft 365 workload impacted
Topic Key discussion areas (for example, product roadmap updates, feature deep dives)
Audience Recommended participants (for example, CIOs, CTOs, IT Admins)
Registration Info Direct registration links or invitation details
 Tip
If registration details aren't available for an upcoming event, check back later. The
information will appear automatically once registration links are available.

--- Page 2129 of 2193 ---
Benefits of CAB
The Customer Advisory Board program allows you to:
Engage directly with Microsoft engineering teams.
Preview and provide feedback on Microsoft 365 roadmap plans.
Network with peers across industries facing similar challenges.
Influence future product and service enhancements.
Incident analysis
The Incident Analysis page in Enhanced engagements allows you to request post-incident
analysis for closed incidents. You can submit a request for incidents that have been resolved in
the last 30 days. In addition, you can view insights into your current incident analysis requests,
including their status, and see a report of all past requests.

To submit a post-incident analysis request:
1. Go to the Incident Analysis page and navigate to the Incident Analysis section under
Engagements.
2. Select Create a new request. A flyout menu will open, showing a list of eligible incidents
that can be selected for post-incident analysis.
3. Select a case. In the flyout menu, choose an incident by selecting the ticket number from
the available list.

--- Page 2130 of 2193 ---
4. Review case details after selecting an incident where you'll also see additional details related
to the ticket. Follow the prompts to complete your analysis request.
5. Submit your request. Once you've reviewed the information, submit your post-incident
analysis request.

Incident Analysis overview
The Incident Analysis (IA) Overview section provides a snapshot of the current state of your post-
incident analysis requests:
Total IAs: Displays the total number of open post-incident analysis requests.
Active IAs: Shows the number of active requests that are being worked on.
Active IAs by workload
This section breaks down your active post-incident analysis requests by workload type:
Exchange: The number of active analysis requests related to Exchange incidents.
SharePoint: The number of active analysis requests related to SharePoint incidents.
Teams: The number of active analysis requests related to Teams incidents.
Incident analysis filters
You can refine your view of the incident analysis requests by using the following filters:

--- Page 2131 of 2193 ---
Status: Filter by the current status of the request (for example, Submitted, Completed).
Created By: Filter by the user who created the request.
Product: Filter by the product associated with the incident (for example, Exchange,
SharePoint, Teams).
Request Report
The Request Report section displays a table with all the post-incident analysis requests that have
been submitted. For each request, you can see the following details:
Ticket #: The unique identifier for the incident.
Case Title: The title of the incident request.
Status: The current status of the request (for example, Submitted, Completed).
Created By: The user who created the request.
Date Created: The date when the request was created.
Product: The product associated with the incident (for example, Exchange, SharePoint,
Teams).
Navigation and Pagination
The request report is displayed in a paginated table format. You can navigate through the pages
of requests by using the pagination controls at the bottom of the table:
Next and Previous arrows allow you to move between pages.
The Items per page selector lets you adjust how many requests are displayed on each page.
Related content
Diagnostics overview
） Note: The author created this article with assistance from AI. Learn more
Last updated on 11/19/2025

--- Page 2132 of 2193 ---
Diagnostics in Engineering Direct
The Diagnostics page hosts diagnostic tools for self-service issue resolution within your
environment.

In this section:
Visual Mail Flow
Validate DKIM Signing Configuration
Audit Log Summary
Issues with Guest Access in Teams
Visual Mail Flow
Visual Mail Flow enables you to examine issues related to mail flow, such as email submission,
group expansion, processing by transport agents (such as AntiSpam, mail flow rules, Data Loss
Prevention), and delivery.
Some common situations where Visual Mail Flow can be useful:
Checking the delivery status of recipients
Determining reasons for nonreceipt of emails by certain recipients
Understanding variations in email delivery between recipients
Identifying mail flow rules applied to an email and their actions
Identifying Data Loss Prevention rules applied to an email and their actions
Input requirements

--- Page 2133 of 2193 ---
To use Visual Mail Flow, you need either the email's Message ID or the Network Message ID. You
can locate either the message ID or the network message ID by opening the email in question, go
to File -> Properties -> Internet headers. You can parse through the headers to find either the
message ID or network ID. Alternatively, you can copy/paste the entire internet header box and
use a tool like Message Header Analyzer to parse this information for you.
７ Note
Ensure the submitted messages are within the age range of 1 to 90 days.
Message ID: Found in the email header with the "Message-ID:" token. Users can provide
this information to help investigate specific messages. Be sure to include the full message
ID. This might include angle brackets (<>). Although the form varies depending on the
email system, here's an example of what a message ID would look like:
<08f1e0f806a47b4ac109109ae6ef@server.domain>.
Network Message ID: Found in the email header with the "X-MS-Exchange-Organization-
Network-Message-Id:" token. An example of a network message ID is 4d4c1224-7398-4e8e-
949f-ce1932c4ab9d.
Running the diagnostics
Enter either the Message ID or Network Message ID, then select Troubleshoot to start the
diagnosis. Results are generated in approximately 30 seconds.
Understanding the results
The Visual Mail Flow diagnostic result includes:
Summary: General conclusion on the mail flow.
Highlights: List of outstanding info and detected issues.
Recommendations: Intelligent recommendations for resolving detected issues.
The Visual Mail Flow Tree is an interactive display showing the stages an email went through,
with the ability to zoom, drag, and view detailed node information. By examining the tree, you
can gain a detailed understanding of how Exchange Online processed the email. In some cases,
you might notice that the tree node is split into multiple child nodes. This is due to Exchange
Online's bifurcation feature, which separates recipients into multiple sets to process them
separately during mail flow.

--- Page 2134 of 2193 ---

Investigating further
Select a tree node to view a flyout with other details, including recipients processed and node-
specific properties for troubleshooting mail flow issues. The flyout contains other details for you
to review and investigate. It contains a common "Recipients" property to show which recipients
this node processed, and more node-specific properties that vary between nodes to help better
troubleshoot mail flow issues.
 Tip
Emails sent to many recipients or large groups will take a longer time to query or could time
out. Querying emails with fewer recipients could improve your experience.

--- Page 2135 of 2193 ---

If Visual Mail Flow can't help you resolve the issue, contact Microsoft Support for further help.
Validate DKIM Signing Configuration
The Validate DKIM (DomainKeys Identified Mail) Signing Configuration tool in Microsoft Admin
Center is designed to help administrators verify and troubleshoot DKIM configurations for their
domain. DKIM is an email authentication method that enhances email security by allowing
receiving mail servers to verify the authenticity of the sender's email through a digital signature.
This verification process helps prevent email spoofing and ensures the integrity of the message.
The Validate DKIM Signing Configuration tool is used to:
Validate the DKIM signing configuration for a domain.
Identify issues with DKIM setup, such as missing, incorrect, or improperly enabled
configurations.
Provide actionable insights to help resolve configuration issues and ensure email messages
are properly authenticated and trusted by recipient systems.
Scenarios for usage
This diagnostic tool is useful in the following scenarios:
Initial Setup: After configuring DKIM for a new domain, use the tool to verify that the setup
is complete and correct.

--- Page 2136 of 2193 ---
Troubleshooting: If emails from your domain are being marked as spam or aren't passing
DKIM validation, use the tool to diagnose potential configuration issues.
Configuration Updates: When updating DKIM settings or DNS records, use the tool to
confirm that changes have been applied correctly.
Steps and outputs
Step 1: Access the Validate DKIM Signing Configuration Tool
Navigate to Microsoft Admin Center:
Sign in to the Microsoft Admin Center.
Go to the Diagnostics section.
Select Validate DKIM Signing Configuration:
Choose the Validate DKIM Signing Configuration tool from the list of available
diagnostics.
Step 2: Input Required Information
Tenant:
The tool will automatically pull the default tenant information from the HTML.
Vanity Domain:
Select the domain you want to test from the dropdown list of available domains.
Step 3: Review Diagnostic Results
After running the diagnostic, you'll receive one of the following results, depending on the
status of your DKIM configuration:
Slide 1: No Configuration Created nor Enabled
Description: DKIM signing configuration for the domain hasn't been created. Emails
might use default domain settings.
Action Required: Create the necessary DKIM signing configuration. Follow the PowerShell
link provided in the diagnostic output to create the configuration. Then, configure DKIM
using the steps outlined in the Set up DKIM to sign mail from your Microsoft 365 domain
article.
Slide 2: Configured but Possibly Published Incorrectly
Description: DKIM configuration entries for the domain are either not published or
published incorrectly.

--- Page 2137 of 2193 ---
Action Required: Check the DNS entries for errors. Ensure that CNAME records correctly
point to the Microsoft published public key entry as specified in the DKIM configuration.
Correct any issues with the CNAME publishing and refer to the Set up DKIM to sign mail
from your Microsoft 365 domain article for further instructions.
Slide 3: Created but Not Enabled
Description: DKIM signing configuration for the domain has been created but not yet
enabled.
Action Required: Enable DKIM signing for the domain. Follow the steps in the Set up
DKIM to sign mail from your Microsoft 365 domain article to enable and validate the
configuration.
Slide 4: Properly Created and Correct DNS Entries Enabled
Description: DKIM signing configuration is correctly created and enabled with accurate
DNS entries.
Action Required: No further action is required. Your DKIM configuration is properly set
up, and your emails are authenticated correctly by recipient systems.
Troubleshooting and support
If you encounter issues with the Validate DKIM Signing Configuration tool or need further
assistance, consider the following steps:
The diagnostic output includes specific details about configuration errors. Use these details
to pinpoint and correct issues.
Refer to the Set up DKIM to sign mail from your Microsoft 365 domain article for
comprehensive guidance on DKIM configuration.
If issues persist, contact Microsoft support for further assistance.
By using the Validate DKIM Signing Configuration tool effectively, you can ensure that your email
authentication is robust and that your messages are protected from spoofing and tampering.
Audit log summary
The audit log summary provides a comprehensive overview or count of the activities tracked
within your tenant's audit log. This diagnostic tool is useful for reviewing admin actions,
identifying unusual administrative activity, or investigating potential rogue administrators.
Inputs

--- Page 2138 of 2193 ---
Search the number of days prior to the current date (max 30 days)
If you enter 10, the diagnostic will review the log for up to 10 days prior to the current
date
If left blank, the diagnostic will run with the value of seven days
Outputs
The output is split into two sections:
1. Users with High Activity - Users who have performed a specific action at a much higher
rate than the average user will be listed here, along with the count of each action they have
taken.
2. Full User List - All users, along with a list of their activities and corresponding counts, will be
displayed here in alphabetical order. Actions performed by apps will be grouped together.
Issues with guest access in Teams
The Microsoft Teams Guest Access Diagnostic is designed to resolve issues that might prevent
guests from joining a team. It covers potential problems related to inviting guests, accessing
Teams content, and using certain guest features. Since guest settings are controlled both at the
organizational and team levels, the diagnostic identifies any misconfigurations that could affect
guest access. It consolidates all these issues into a single report, where each misconfiguration is
accompanied by administrative guidance. Moreover, it reviews how guest user accounts are
provisioned and accepts optional inputs at the organization, team, and user levels, allowing you
to tailor the output to your needs.
Organization-level settings
These settings at the organization-level are evaluated to check for misconfiguration.
ﾉ Expand table
Setting Where it's Setting values considered "misconfigured"
located
External collaboration Microsoft Entra "No one in this organization can invite guest users including
setting's guest invite Admin Center admins (most restrictive)" "Only users assigned to specific
setting admin roles can invite guests"

--- Page 2139 of 2193 ---
Setting Where it's Setting values considered "misconfigured"
located
Microsoft 365 group Microsoft Either one or both settings are turned off: "Let group owners
guest settings Admin Center add people outside your organization to Microsoft 365 Groups
as guests" "Let guest group members access group content"
SharePoint External SharePoint "Only people in your organization" Existing guests only"
Sharing settings Admin Center
Guest Access setting Teams Admin Off
Center
User-level setup
If a guest user is supplied as an input, the diagnostic verifies their account provisioning in both
Entra and Teams. Furthermore, if a Teams team is also provided, it checks whether that guest is a
member of the specified team.
Additional settings
In addition, this diagnostic also displays some settings that could affect your guest access
experience. These settings aren't evaluated for misconfiguration.
1. External collaboration's collaboration restriction setting and guest user access restriction
setting in Microsoft Entra Admin Center.

--- Page 2140 of 2193 ---

2. Guest feature settings in Teams Admin Center

--- Page 2141 of 2193 ---

3. Teams guest permissions in Teams app

We aim for this diagnostic to resolve your guest access issues and provide a seamless guest
experience in Teams. If problems persist, reach out to Microsoft support for assistance.

--- Page 2142 of 2193 ---
Related content
Design change requests
Last updated on 04/27/2026

--- Page 2143 of 2193 ---
Design Change Requests in Engineering
Direct (private preview)
The Design Change Requests page provides a high-level view of requests from customers to
modify or enhance a product or feature or to introduce new capabilities. In this section you'll find
a high-level report on the DCRs for your tenant, complete with useful metrics and graphs. This
report is only inclusive of requests for products that are covered by the Engineering Direct offer.
DCRs raised for other products won't be included.
This page contains:
1. Request Number - Support case that was opened for the DCR Request.
2. Request Title - Title of the support case raised.
3. Customer Contact - Who opened the case.
4. Request Create Date - Date the case was opened. The portal will only show cases that have
been opened in the last 12 months.
5. Escalation Status - Status of the request. The status types that are shown are:
Engineering Review - Requests are still being reviewed by Microsoft and no decisions
have been made.
Under consideration - Requests have been added to a list of change that we'll
consider for upcoming release cycles, but Microsoft hasn't committed to doing these
changes.
Under development - Requests that Microsoft has accepted and are being developed.
Time might vary depending on how long development takes.
Completed - Requests that Microsoft has completed or closed.
Rejected - Requests weren't accepted.
6. Request Closed Date - Date the case was completed.
7. Product - Product that the request was opened for.

--- Page 2144 of 2193 ---

More information
As we roll out new features, your experience might change.
If there's any issues or questions, reach out to edfeedback@microsoft.com or use the feedback
mechanism within the Engineering Direct portal page. If you encounter any technical issues, open
a support ticket through Microsoft support.
Last updated on 05/06/2026

--- Page 2145 of 2193 ---
Enhanced engagements portal in the
Microsoft 365 admin center
The Enhanced Engagements portal within the Microsoft 365 admin center is designed to provide
Mission Critical Services (MCS) customers with an enhanced engineering experience. This article
provides an overview of the portal's features, how to access it, and its functionality.
The enhanced engagements portal capabilities include:
Delivery metrics to help highlight what MCS provides and how you use the service
Insights into support tickets that have been raised to the product group
Self-service diagnostics to empower you with immediate insights and resolutions
Features and diagnostics suggested by our MCS customers
７ Note
The portal is available to all MCS customers and their in-scope tenants at no additional
charge. Permissions are currently granted to anyone within your tenant with an RBAC (role-
based access control) support role.
Accessing the Enhanced Engagements portal
The Enhanced Engagements portal is located under Support within the Microsoft 365 admin
center. To access the portal, follow these steps:
1. Navigate to the Microsoft 365 admin center.
2. Select Support.
3. Select Enhanced Engagements to enter the portal.

--- Page 2146 of 2193 ---

Related content
Overview of Enhanced Engagements portal
Engagements pivot in Enhanced Engagements portal
Diagnostics pivot in Enhanced Engagements portal
Design change requests in Enhanced Engagements portal
Last updated on 11/19/2025

--- Page 2147 of 2193 ---
Overview of Enhanced engagements
Once in the portal, you'll see the Overview page. This page contains several key elements:
TCL Contact: You will see a TCL contact tile displaying your assigned Technical Customer
Lead's email address, along with an option to directly initiate an email. This tile is always
visible to customers.
Insights: Key Metrics: This tile lists both your engineering escalations and those escalations
that have been resolved in the last six months. An issue is considered an 'engineering
escalation' once it has been raised to and assigned to a Microsoft engineer (either through
our support organization, or raised through the Escalate to Engineering feature).
Total escalations include open or closed tickets
Active escalations include only those tickets that are open
Customer Advisory Board (CAB): The CAB tile will list the last and next CAB events as well
as the last and next community calls. This is for information purposes; registrations and
calendar blockers will continue to be provided separately through existing process channels.
Insights: Escalation Trend Per Week by Status: A monthly view of escalations by open and
closed for the last six months. This is a focused view of all reactive issues, filtered by all
issues that have a Microsoft engineering element.
Request A Feature: Allows you to submit feedback or a request to the Engineering Direct
Portal team. Feedback can be both related to the portal itself and its functionality, and any
broader engineering features you would like to see in Engineering Direct. Feature requests
submitted through this method are visible to users in the My Feedback section of the
feedback portal.


--- Page 2148 of 2193 ---
Related content
Engagements
Last updated on 11/19/2025

--- Page 2149 of 2193 ---
Engagements in Enhanced Engagements
The Engagements pivot in Enhanced engagements offers a centralized overview of all customer-
specific engagements with Microsoft. This section allows users to request and track engineering-
led escalations, post-incident analyses, and Customer Advisory Board (CAB) discussions. Each
engagement type provides detailed insights, status updates, and filtering options to help manage
support efficiently.

Service Requests
The Service Requests view under Engagements provides visibility into all service requests raised
for your tenant. This view helps monitor escalation activity, review trends, and gain insights into
how issues are distributed across products, severity levels, and sources. You can also use the
Nudge feature to gain additional traction from Microsoft.
Nudge: This option allows you to request additional support for an active service request when
urgency, clarity, or escalation is needed. Use it when the issue affects business operations,
impacting key users, requires more attention, or the current progress isn't meeting expectations.
To submit a request, follow these steps:

--- Page 2150 of 2193 ---
1. Select a reason using one of the available radio button options.
2. Provide additional context in the description text box to help us understand the urgency,
impact, or scenario.
3. Attach any supporting files (optional) to help clarify the request (screenshots, logs,
documentation).
4. Choose a primary point of contact who Microsoft can follow up with for additional details or
alignment.
5. Once complete, select Submit to send the request to our support team for review.
6. Once submitted, the request will be reviewed, and our team will contact you using the email
you provide assistance with the issue.

Overview of Service Requests
At the top of the page, several visual summaries provide quick insights into your tenant's
escalation activity:
Total escalations - The total number of escalations associated with your tenant.
Open escalations - The number of currently active or unresolved escalations.
Escalations by product - A workload-based view that shows how many escalations relate to
services such as Microsoft Exchange, SharePoint, or Teams.
Customer raised escalations - Displays the number of escalations initiated directly by your
organization.

--- Page 2151 of 2193 ---
Distribution by escalation source - A chart showing whether escalations were raised by
your organization or Microsoft Support.
Distribution by severity - Summarizes escalations by severity level (Severity 1, A, B, or C).
Escalations per week by status - A trend chart showing how many escalations were created
and closed each week.
７ Note
These insights update automatically as new escalations are raised or resolved.
Service Request report
Below the overview section, the service request report provides a detailed, filterable table of all
active and historical escalations for your tenant. You can use this table to review case progress,
assigned severity, and escalation sources.
You can:
Search by title, ticket number, or keywords.
Filter by status, product, severity, or escalation source.
Refresh the data to view the most recent updates.
Export the results for reporting or analysis.
ﾉ Expand table
Column Description
Title The name or brief summary of the service request.
Created by The user who initiated the service request.
Ticket The unique service request identifier.
Severity Indicates the service request's priority (for example, A, B, C, or 1).
Escalation date When the service request was created.
Status The current state of the service request (Open, Closed, In Progress).
Escalation Identifies whether the service request originated from your organization or from
source Microsoft Support.
 Tip

--- Page 2152 of 2193 ---
Combine filters and charts to spot recurring service request trends or identify products that
require the most attention.
Benefits of Service Requests
The Service Requests view helps your organization:
Maintain visibility into engineering-level service requests.
Understand patterns across products and severity levels.
Identify and manage high-impact issues efficiently.
Improve collaboration with Microsoft support and engineering teams.
Critical Project Assistance (CPAs)
The Critical Project Assistance (CPA) feature in the Enhanced Engineering portal enables
organizations to notify Microsoft about upcoming business activities or infrastructure changes
that might impact their Microsoft 365 services. During these periods, Microsoft's Service
Engineering team provides elevated monitoring and proactive engagement to help identify and
mitigate potential risks.

Examples of qualifying projects include:
Major datacenter or network changes

--- Page 2153 of 2193 ---
Mergers, acquisitions, or divestitures
Large-scale product launches or migrations
Tenant rebranding or restructuring
Submit a new CPA request
If you're planning a significant business event, you can submit a CPA request to inform
Microsoft's Service Engineering team in advance. For a meaningful engagement, kindly notify us
about your critical project at least 10 business days before the event.

1. In the Enhanced engagements section, go to Engagements > CPAs.
2. Select Submit new CPA.
3. Enter the required details about your planned activity, including:
Project title and Project details
Start and end dates
Products (for example, Exchange, SharePoint, Teams)
Primary contact information
4. Review your information and select Submit.

--- Page 2154 of 2193 ---
Once submitted, your request will appear in the CPA overview table with its current status.
CPA overview
The CPA overview section provides a summary of all CPA requests submitted for your tenant.
It includes:
Total CPAs and Active CPAs
Active CPAs by workload (Exchange, SharePoint, Teams)
A searchable and filterable list of CPA requests
You can:
Filter CPAs by status or workload
Export CPA data for reporting or tracking
Refresh the view to see the latest submissions
Each CPA entry includes key details:
ﾉ Expand table
Column Description
Project title Name of the submitted business activity
Ticket ID Unique identifier for the CPA request
Start/ End date Duration of the planned event
Product Microsoft 365 workload impacted
Created by Person who submitted the CPA
Contact Primary contact for follow-up
Status Current state of the request (for example, Submitted, In review, Closed)
By clicking the project title, a flyout would be shown form right side of the portal, which would
allow you to view CPA request details (for example, project details).

--- Page 2155 of 2193 ---

Active CPAs by workload
The Active CPAs by Workload chart provides a quick visual summary of ongoing CPA
engagements by product area. This helps you identify which workloads currently have active
awareness requests and plan accordingly.
Customer Advisory Board (CAB)
The Customer Advisory Board offers you a prioritized voice into the evolution of Microsoft 365
through various virtual and in-person engagements with engineering, designed to facilitate
roadmap discussions and feedback loops into all in-scope product teams.

--- Page 2156 of 2193 ---

CAB overview
The CAB overview section provides quick access to recent and upcoming engagement details.
Last completed event - Displays the most recent in-person CAB event and links to its
feedback form.
Upcoming CAB event - Shows the next scheduled in-person CAB session.
Last completed community call - Displays the most recent virtual community call and
provides a feedback link.
Upcoming community call - Highlights the next scheduled community call.
If a CAB event or call hasn't been scheduled yet, the corresponding date and details won't be
displayed. These fields automatically update once new schedule information becomes available. If
a CAB event or call hasn't been scheduled yet, the corresponding date and details won't be
displayed. These fields automatically update once new schedule information becomes available.
７ Note

--- Page 2157 of 2193 ---
CAB event and call details are refreshed periodically. When no upcoming events are listed, it
means the schedule is still being finalized and will appear once available.
Upcoming CAB schedule
The Upcoming CAB schedule lists all planned engagements with Microsoft 365 engineering
teams. Each entry provides event details, topics, audience, and registration information.
You can:
View upcoming and past CAB sessions.
Export the schedule for tracking and internal coordination.
Register for upcoming sessions directly from the portal.
Each schedule entry includes:
ﾉ Expand table
Column Description
Column Start and end dates for the CAB engagement
Dates Title of the CAB session or community call
Event Microsoft 365 workload impacted
Topic Key discussion areas (for example, product roadmap updates, feature deep dives)
Audience Recommended participants (for example, CIOs, CTOs, IT Admins)
Registration Info Direct registration links or invitation details
 Tip
If registration details aren't available for an upcoming event, check back later. The
information will appear automatically once registration links are available.
Benefits of CAB
The Customer Advisory Board program allows you to:
Engage directly with Microsoft engineering teams.
Preview and provide feedback on Microsoft 365 roadmap plans.

--- Page 2158 of 2193 ---
Network with peers across industries facing similar challenges.
Influence future product and service enhancements.
Incident Analysis
The Incident Analysis page in Enhanced engagements allows you to request incident analysis for
closed incidents. You can submit a request for incidents that have been critical in nature and
resolved in the last 7 days. In addition, you can view insights into your current incident analysis
requests, including their status, and see a report of all past requests.

Create an Incident Analysis request
To submit an incident analysis request:
1. Go to the Incident Analysis page and navigate to the Incident Analysis section under
Engagements.
2. Select Create a new request. A flyout menu will open, showing a list of eligible incidents
that can be selected for incident analysis.
3. Select a case. In the flyout menu, choose an incident by selecting the ticket number from
the available list.

--- Page 2159 of 2193 ---
4. Review case details after selecting an incident where you'll also see additional details related
to the ticket. Follow the prompts to complete your analysis request.
5. If it's a Copilot issue, check the box.
6. Submit your request. Once you've reviewed the information, submit your incident analysis
request.

Alternatively, you can do the following:
1. If you do not see your incident listed, select Don't see your incident.
2. A flyout menu will open. Provide your case number and contact details, explain why this
case should qualify for Incident Analysis, and outline the specific information you seek if
eligible.
3. Submit your request. All requests will be reviewed by a Technical Customer Lead (TCL).

--- Page 2160 of 2193 ---

Incident Analysis Overview
The Incident Analysis (IA) overview section provides a snapshot of the current state of your
incident analysis requests:
Total IAs: Displays the total number of open incident analysis requests.
Active IAs: Shows the number of active requests that are being worked on.
Active IAs by workload
This section breaks down your active incident analysis requests by workload type:
Exchange: The number of active analysis requests related to Exchange incidents.
SharePoint: The number of active analysis requests related to SharePoint incidents.

--- Page 2161 of 2193 ---
Teams: The number of active analysis requests related to Teams incidents.
Copilot for M365: The number of active analysis requests related to Copilot incidents
Incident analysis filters
You can refine your view of the incident analysis requests by using the following filters:
Status: Filter by the status of the request (for example, Submitted, Completed).
Created By: Filter by the user who created the request.
Product: Filter by the product associated with the incident (for example, Exchange,
SharePoint, Teams, Copilot for M365).
Request Report
The Request Report section displays a table with all the incident analysis requests that have been
submitted. For each request, you can see the following details:
Ticket #: The unique identifier for the incident.
Case Title: The title of the incident request.
Status: The current status of the request (for example, Submitted, Completed).
Created By: The user who created the request.
Date Created: The date when the request was created.
Product: The product associated with the incident (for example, Exchange, SharePoint,
Teams, Copilot for M365).
Navigation and Pagination
The request report is displayed in a paginated table format. You can navigate through the pages
of requests by using the pagination controls at the bottom of the table:
Next and Previous arrows allow you to move between pages.
The Items per page selector lets you adjust how many requests are displayed on each page.
Related content

--- Page 2162 of 2193 ---
Diagnostics pivot in Enhanced Engagements portal
） Note: The author created this article with assistance from AI. Learn more
Last updated on 04/27/2026

--- Page 2163 of 2193 ---
Diagnostics in Enhanced Engagements
The Diagnostics page hosts diagnostic tools for self-service issue resolution within your
environment.

In this section:
Visual Mail Flow
Validate DKIM Signing Configuration
Auto Archive Detection
Audit Log Summary
Issues with Guest Access in Teams
Visual Mail Flow
Visual Mail Flow enables you to examine issues related to mail flow, such as email submission,
group expansion, processing by transport agents (such as AntiSpam, mail flow rules, Data Loss
Prevention), and delivery.
Some common situations where Visual Mail Flow can be useful:
Checking the delivery status of recipients
Determining reasons for nonreceipt of emails by certain recipients
Understanding variations in email delivery between recipients
Identifying mail flow rules applied to an email and their actions
Identifying Data Loss Prevention rules applied to an email and their actions
Input requirements

--- Page 2164 of 2193 ---
To use Visual Mail Flow, you need either the email's Message ID or the Network Message ID. You
can locate either the message ID or the network message ID by opening the email in question, go
to File -> Properties -> Internet headers. You can parse through the headers to find either the
message ID or network ID. Alternatively, you can copy/paste the entire internet header box and
use a tool like Message Header Analyzer to parse this information for you.
７ Note
Ensure the submitted messages are within the age range of 1 to 90 days.
Message ID: Found in the email header with the "Message-ID:" token. Users can provide
this information to help investigate specific messages. Be sure to include the full message
ID. This might include angle brackets (<>). Although the form varies depending on the
email system, here's an example of what a message ID would look like:
<08f1e0f806a47b4ac109109ae6ef@server.domain>.
Network Message ID: Found in the email header with the "X-MS-Exchange-Organization-
Network-Message-Id:" token. An example of a network message ID is 4d4c1224-7398-4e8e-
949f-ce1932c4ab9d.
Running the diagnostics
Enter either the Message ID or Network Message ID, then select Troubleshoot to start the
diagnosis. Results are generated in approximately 30 seconds.
Understanding the results
The Visual Mail Flow diagnostic result includes:
Summary: General conclusion on the mail flow.
Highlights: List of outstanding info and detected issues.
Recommendations: Intelligent recommendations for resolving detected issues.
The Visual Mail Flow Tree is an interactive display showing the stages an email went through,
with the ability to zoom, drag, and view detailed node information. By examining the tree, you
can gain a detailed understanding of how Exchange Online processed the email. In some cases,
you might notice that the tree node is split into multiple child nodes. This is due to Exchange
Online's bifurcation feature, which separates recipients into multiple sets to process them
separately during mail flow.

--- Page 2165 of 2193 ---

Investigating further
Select a tree node to view a flyout with other details, including recipients processed and node-
specific properties for troubleshooting mail flow issues. The flyout contains other details for you
to review and investigate. It contains a common "Recipients" property to show which recipients
this node processed, and more node-specific properties that vary between nodes to help better
troubleshoot mail flow issues.
 Tip
Emails sent to many recipients or large groups will take a longer time to query or could time
out. Querying emails with fewer recipients could improve your experience.

--- Page 2166 of 2193 ---

If Visual Mail Flow can't help you resolve the issue, contact Microsoft Support for further help.
Validate DKIM Signing Configuration
The Validate DKIM (DomainKeys Identified Mail) Signing Configuration tool in Microsoft Admin
Center is designed to help administrators verify and troubleshoot DKIM configurations for their
domain. DKIM is an email authentication method that enhances email security by allowing
receiving mail servers to verify the authenticity of the sender's email through a digital signature.
This verification process helps prevent email spoofing and ensures the integrity of the message.
The Validate DKIM Signing Configuration tool is used to:
Validate the DKIM signing configuration for a domain.
Identify issues with DKIM setup, such as missing, incorrect, or improperly enabled
configurations.
Provide actionable insights to help resolve configuration issues and ensure email messages
are properly authenticated and trusted by recipient systems.
Scenarios for usage
This diagnostic tool is useful in the following scenarios:
Initial Setup: After configuring DKIM for a new domain, use the tool to verify that the setup
is complete and correct.

--- Page 2167 of 2193 ---
Troubleshooting: If emails from your domain are being marked as spam or aren't passing
DKIM validation, use the tool to diagnose potential configuration issues.
Configuration Updates: When updating DKIM settings or DNS records, use the tool to
confirm that changes have been applied correctly.
Steps and outputs
Step 1: Access the Validate DKIM Signing Configuration Tool
Navigate to Microsoft Admin Center:
Sign in to the Microsoft Admin Center.
Go to the Diagnostics section.
Select Validate DKIM Signing Configuration:
Choose the Validate DKIM Signing Configuration tool from the list of available
diagnostics.
Step 2: Input Required Information
Tenant:
The tool will automatically pull the default tenant information from the HTML.
Vanity Domain:
Select the domain you want to test from the dropdown list of available domains.
Step 3: Review Diagnostic Results
After running the diagnostic, you'll receive one of the following results, depending on the
status of your DKIM configuration:
Slide 1: No Configuration Created nor Enabled
Description: DKIM signing configuration for the domain hasn't been created. Emails
might use default domain settings.
Action Required: Create the necessary DKIM signing configuration. Follow the PowerShell
link provided in the diagnostic output to create the configuration. Then, configure DKIM
using the steps outlined in the Set up DKIM to sign mail from your Microsoft 365 domain
article.
Slide 2: Configured but Possibly Published Incorrectly
Description: DKIM configuration entries for the domain are either not published or
published incorrectly.

--- Page 2168 of 2193 ---
Action Required: Check the DNS entries for errors. Ensure that CNAME records correctly
point to the Microsoft published public key entry as specified in the DKIM configuration.
Correct any issues with the CNAME publishing and refer to the Set up DKIM to sign mail
from your Microsoft 365 domain article for further instructions.
Slide 3: Created but Not Enabled
Description: DKIM signing configuration for the domain has been created but not yet
enabled.
Action Required: Enable DKIM signing for the domain. Follow the steps in the Set up
DKIM to sign mail from your Microsoft 365 domain article to enable and validate the
configuration.
Slide 4: Properly Created and Correct DNS Entries Enabled
Description: DKIM signing configuration is correctly created and enabled with accurate
DNS entries.
Action Required: No further action is required. Your DKIM configuration is properly set
up, and your emails are authenticated correctly by recipient systems.
Troubleshooting and support
If you encounter issues with the Validate DKIM Signing Configuration tool or need further
assistance, consider the following steps:
The diagnostic output includes specific details about configuration errors. Use these details
to pinpoint and correct issues.
Refer to the Set up DKIM to sign mail from your Microsoft 365 domain article for
comprehensive guidance on DKIM configuration.
If issues persist, contact Microsoft support for further assistance.
By using the Validate DKIM Signing Configuration tool effectively, you can ensure that your email
authentication is robust and that your messages are protected from spoofing and tampering.
Auto archive detection
Auto Archive Detection helps manage your mailbox by automatically archiving or deleting old
items. This feature can be configured differently in Outlook Desktop and Outlook on the Web
(OWA). Editing Auto Archive settings in Outlook can help you effectively manage your mailbox,
keeping it organized and free of clutter. Whether you're using Outlook Desktop or Outlook on

--- Page 2169 of 2193 ---
the Web, the steps provided will guide you through the process of configuring Auto Archive to
suit your needs.
Follow the following steps to enable and customize Auto Archive settings based on your version
of Outlook.
For Outlook desktop
1. Launch the Outlook application on your computer.
2. Select File tab located in the top-left corner of the window.
3. From the menu that appears, select Options.
4. In the Outlook Options window, select Advanced located in the left sidebar.
5. Under the AutoArchive section, select AutoArchive Settings.
6. Configure AutoArchive:
Run AutoArchive every X days: Check this box and set the frequency for how often
you want Auto Archive to run.
Prompt before AutoArchive runs: If you wish to receive a reminder before Auto
Archive runs, check this option.
Delete expired items: Check this box if you want to permanently delete old items.
7. Select Actions: Decide what actions you want Auto Archive to take:
Move items to the archive folder: Archives items in a designated folder.
Permanently delete old items: Removes items without archiving.
Archive items older than a specific number of months: Specify the age of items to be
archived.
8. Set Archive Folder: Specify the folder where you want archived items to be stored.
9. After making your selections, select OK to save your settings. Select OK again to exit the
Options window.
For Outlook on the Web (OWA)
1. Navigate to your Outlook on the web and sign in with your credentials.
2. Select the gear icon in the top-right corner to open the settings menu.

--- Page 2170 of 2193 ---
3. At the bottom of the settings panel, select View all Outlook settings.
4. In the settings window, select Mail, then go to Cleanup.
5. Locate the Auto Archive settings and configure them according to your preferences.
6. Save your changes to apply the new settings.
Audit log summary
The audit log summary provides a comprehensive overview or count of the activities tracked
within your tenant's audit log. This diagnostic tool is useful for reviewing admin actions,
identifying unusual administrative activity, or investigating potential rogue administrators.
Inputs
Search the number of days prior to the current date (max 30 days)
If you enter 10, the diagnostic will review the log for up to 10 days prior to the current
date
If left blank, the diagnostic will run with the value of seven days
Outputs
The output is split into two sections:
1. Users with High Activity - Users who have performed a specific action at a much higher
rate than the average user will be listed here, along with the count of each action they have
taken.
2. Full User List - All users, along with a list of their activities and corresponding counts, will be
displayed here in alphabetical order. Actions performed by apps will be grouped together.
Issues with guest access in Teams
The Microsoft Teams Guest Access Diagnostic is designed to resolve issues that might prevent
guests from joining a team. It covers potential problems related to inviting guests, accessing
Teams content, and using certain guest features. Since guest settings are controlled both at the
organizational and team levels, the diagnostic identifies any misconfigurations that could affect
guest access. It consolidates all these issues into a single report, where each misconfiguration is
accompanied by administrative guidance. Moreover, it reviews how guest user accounts are

--- Page 2171 of 2193 ---
provisioned and accepts optional inputs at the organization, team, and user levels, allowing you
to tailor the output to your needs.
Organization-level settings
These settings at the organization-level are evaluated to check for misconfiguration.
ﾉ Expand table
Setting Where it's Setting values considered "misconfigured"
located
External collaboration Microsoft Entra "No one in this organization can invite guest users including
setting's guest invite Admin Center admins (most restrictive)" "Only users assigned to specific
setting admin roles can invite guests"
Microsoft 365 group Microsoft Either one or both settings are turned off: "Let group owners
guest settings Admin Center add people outside your organization to Microsoft 365 Groups
as guests" "Let guest group members access group content"
SharePoint External SharePoint "Only people in your organization" Existing guests only"
Sharing settings Admin Center
Guest Access setting Teams Admin Off
Center
User-level setup
If a guest user is supplied as an input, the diagnostic verifies their account provisioning in both
Entra and Teams. Furthermore, if a Teams team is also provided, it checks whether that guest is a
member of the specified team.
Additional settings
In addition, this diagnostic also displays some settings that could affect your guest access
experience. These settings aren't evaluated for misconfiguration.
1. External collaboration's collaboration restriction setting and guest user access restriction
setting in Microsoft Entra Admin Center.

--- Page 2172 of 2193 ---

2. Guest feature settings in Teams Admin Center

--- Page 2173 of 2193 ---

3. Teams guest permissions in Teams app

We aim for this diagnostic to resolve your guest access issues and provide a seamless guest
experience in Teams. If problems persist, reach out to Microsoft support for assistance.

--- Page 2174 of 2193 ---
Related content
Design change requests
Last updated on 11/17/2025

--- Page 2175 of 2193 ---
Design Change Requests in Enhanced
Engagements (private preview)
The Design Change Requests page provides a high-level view of requests from customers to
modify or enhance a product or feature or to introduce new capabilities. In this section you'll find
a high-level report on the DCRs for your tenant, complete with useful metrics and graphs. This
report is only inclusive of requests for products that are covered by the Mission Critical Services
(MCS) offer. DCRs raised for other products won't be included.
This page contains:
1. Request Number - Support case that was opened for the DCR Request.
2. Request Title - Title of the support case raised.
3. Customer Contact - Who opened the case.
4. Request Create Date - Date the case was opened. The portal will only show cases that have
been opened in the last 12 months.
5. Escalation Status - Status of the request. The status types that are shown are:
Engineering Review - Requests are still being reviewed by Microsoft and no decisions
have been made.
Under consideration - Requests have been added to a list of change that we'll
consider for upcoming release cycles, but Microsoft hasn't committed to doing these
changes.
Under development - Requests that Microsoft has accepted and are being developed.
Time might vary depending on how long development takes.
Completed - Requests that Microsoft has completed or closed.
Rejected - Requests weren't accepted.
6. Request Closed Date - Date the case was completed.
7. Product - Product that the request was opened for.

--- Page 2176 of 2193 ---

More information
As we roll out new features, your experience might change.
If there's any issues or questions, reach out to edfeedback@microsoft.com or use the feedback
mechanism within the Enhanced Engagements Portal page. If you encounter any technical issues,
open a support ticket through Microsoft support.
Last updated on 05/06/2026

--- Page 2177 of 2193 ---
Microsoft 365 troubleshooting for
admins and IT professionals
Microsoft 365 provides online services and server products for your business with solutions for
small to enterprise scale. This page provides guidance for troubleshooting issues with these
products and services.
Microsoft 365 Microsoft Teams Microsoft 365 Apps
Microsoft 365 Microsoft Teams Microsoft 365 Apps
Administration
From the Office Experts
Microsoft Purview
SharePoint Exchange Skype for Business
SharePoint Server Exchange Server Skype for Business Server
SharePoint Online Exchange Online
SharePoint Hybrid Exchange Hybrid
From the SharePoint Experts
Microsoft Outlook OneDrive Microsoft Viva
Classic Outlook for Windows OneDrive for Business Microsoft Viva Glint
New Outlook for Windows Microsoft Viva Insights
Legacy Outlook for Mac Microsoft Viva Pulse

--- Page 2178 of 2193 ---
New Outlook for Mac
Related guidance for
Developers End users Business owners
Guidance for developing Find help, training, and Find help, training, and
solutions for Office products technical support for users of technical support for business
and services. Office products on owners who use Microsoft 365.
support.office.com.
Educators IT Educators Admins and IT
Professionals
Find guidance for admins and Find help, training, and
IT Professionals in educational technical support for Guidance for admins and IT
organizations. educators. Professionals managing Office
products and services.

--- Page 2179 of 2193 ---
Get support for Microsoft 365 for business
Check out all of our small business content on Small business help & learning .
Check out Microsoft 365 small business help on YouTube.
Watch: Get help or support
Check out this video and others on our YouTube channel .
https://learn-video.azurefd.net/vod/player?id=470edf48-3b59-4538-9c05-
5518960bed02&locale=en-us&embedUrl=%2Fmicrosoft-365%2Fadmin%2Fget-help-
support
Need to speak to someone right away? Admins have your account details ready when you call
Support.
） Important
You must be an admin for a business subscription to use these support methods. Find out
more about admin roles for the Microsoft 365 admin center. If you're not a business
admin, use this support page .
Start by checking the current health of your services. You can view detailed information about
current and past issues on the Service health dashboard . If you're experiencing an issue that
isn't listed, you can get support in one of the following ways:
Online support
Save time by starting your service request online. We can help you find a solution or connect you
to technical support.
） Important
You must have at least one subscription bought through Microsoft to access Microsoft
support. If you bought all your subscriptions through a partner, contact your partner for
support.

--- Page 2180 of 2193 ---
1. Go to the admin center at https://admin.cloud.microsoft . If you get a message that says
you don't have permission to access this page or perform this action, you aren't an admin.
For more information, see Who has admin permissions in my business?.
2. On the bottom right side of the page, select Help & support.
3. On the Support Assistant page, type your message or question into the text box. You will
get a set of results to your question or message.
4. If the results don't help, select the Contact Support (headset) icon at the top of the page or
bottom left on the page.
5. Choose your contact method, phone or email. Add and confirm your contact details and
select Contact me. The expected wait time is indicated in the Contact support pane.
７ Note
For a smoother support experience, we recommend that you open separate support
requests for each issue.
Phone support
） Important
Please note that our phone numbers have changed. For the most current support phone
number in your country/region, see the global phone numbers list . If your country/region
isn't listed, select a neighboring country/region or dial the United States support phone
number.
In most countries/regions, billing support for Microsoft 365 for business products and services is
provided in English from 9 AM-5 PM, Monday through Friday. Local language support varies by
country/region.
Technical support is provided in English 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, and in some cases, in local
languages as noted.
Admins have your account details ready when you call.
７ Note
To better protect your organization, we added a PIN-based verification step to our existing
phone-based verification process. If you contact us from a number that isn't registered with

--- Page 2181 of 2193 ---
your organization profile, the Microsoft support representative sends a verification code to
the registered email or phone number in your Microsoft 365 admin center profile. You must
provide this code to the support representative to grant them access to your organization's
account.
Volume licensing support
There's a dedicated support team for users who access volume licensing (VL) contracts in the
Microsoft 365 admin center. To request support for volume licensing, use the following steps:
1. In the Microsoft 365 admin center, select Help & support.
2. In the query box, type "manage volume licensing" together with your question to help
target your query more accurately. If you see a drop-down list, select the item closest to
your question, or continue typing your question, then press Enter.
3. If the results don't help, at the bottom, select Contact Support.
4. Enter a description of your issue, specify the License ID or VL agreement number your issue
relates to, confirm your contact number and email address, select your preferred contact
method, and then select Contact me.
If you're a volume licensing admin but are unable to access the admin center, go to the volume
licensing online support request page in the Engage Center.
Related content
Find docs and training (link page)
Employee quick setup (article)
Overview of Microsoft 365 Business Premium setup (video)
Last updated on 01/26/2026

--- Page 2182 of 2193 ---
Understand Microsoft 365 support case
creation and data access
Summarize this article for me
Microsoft is improving your visibility into Microsoft Support's read-only access to your data
during the Microsoft 365 support case lifecycle. When you create a support request, you grant
cross-tenant access to Microsoft Support to access the information needed to troubleshoot the
issue. This access is time bound and uses least-privileged access, in accordance with Zero Trust
Principles.
This article describes what you see in your Microsoft Entra audit logs when:
When a Microsoft 365 Support case is created.
When a Microsoft Support engineer works on your case.
When a Microsoft 365 Support case is closed.
It also lists who can create support cases and what permissions are granted to Microsoft
Support engineers.
７ Note
To learn how to create a support case, see Get support for Microsoft 365 for business.
If you're a home user and you need technical support, see Contact us .
What happens when a Microsoft 365 support case
is created?
When a user who has an appropriate role assigned creates a support case in the Microsoft 365
admin center , a special type of cross-tenant access policy resource is created in your tenant.
This cross-tenant access policy gives you visibility into Microsoft Support's permission to
access diagnostic data in your tenant. This policy is restricted to the Microsoft Support tenant
and the Microsoft 365 Support Engineer role. You can't create or modify any other type of
cross-tenant access policy, except for administrators who have the Global Administrator,
Security Administrator, or Teams Administrator role assigned.
To provide you with contextual understanding of this policy, the cross-tenant access policy
resource appears in Microsoft Entra audit logs as created by the user who initiated the support
case. The level of access granted for the Microsoft Support tenant is captured as Delegated
Admin Service Provider Constraints.

--- Page 2183 of 2193 ---
Microsoft Entra audit events are logged throughout the Microsoft 365 Support case lifecycle.
What audit events are logged during a Microsoft
Support case lifecycle?
Audit events are logged when:
A Microsoft 365 support case is opened.
A Microsoft Support engineer works on the support case.
A Microsoft 365 support case is closed.
To learn more about Microsoft Entra audit logs, see the following articles:
What are Microsoft Entra audit logs?
How to access activity logs in Microsoft Entra ID
Audit events during support case creation
When you create a support case, the following Microsoft Entra audit events are recorded:
ﾉ Expand table
Order Event Actor
1 If it doesn't already exist, Add a partner to cross-tenant Identity of the user who created
access setting. the support case.
Adds the Microsoft Support tenant with Tenant ID b4c546a4-
7dac-46a6-a7dd-ed822a11efd3.
2 If it doesn't already exist, Adding allowed assignable roles. Identity of the user who created
the support case.
Adds the Microsoft 365 Support Engineer role only.
Audit events when Microsoft Support works on your case
When a Microsoft Support engineer works on your support case, the following Microsoft Entra
audit events are recorded:
ﾉ Expand table

--- Page 2184 of 2193 ---
Order Event Actor
1 If it doesn't exist already, Add a Service Principal Service Principal for the Assist API
for the Microsoft Support tenant. application.
Microsoft Entra GDAP application. (See What is the Assist API application, and
how do I find it in my tenant?)
2 Add member to role. Assist API application.
Group from Microsoft Support tenant is added to App ID 2b8844d8-6c87-4fce-97a0-
the Microsoft 365 Support Engineer role. fbec9006e140.
Audit events during support case closure
When your support case is closed, the following Microsoft Entra audit events are recorded:
ﾉ Expand table
Order Event Actor
1 Add a service principal. Assist API application.
The Microsoft Entra GDAP application handles revocation. App ID 2b8844d8-6c87-
4fce-97a0-fbec9006e140.
2 Deleting allowed assignable roles. Microsoft Entra GDAP
application.
App ID bc56af95-7a3b-
459f-98a9-bd86532b0e89.
3 Delete partner specific cross-tenant access setting. Microsoft Entra GDAP
application.
Removes the Microsoft Support tenant if there are no other active
support cases or 30 days have elapsed since the most recent case App ID bc56af95-7a3b-
was created. 459f-98a9-bd86532b0e89.
What is the Assist API application, and how do I find it in my
tenant?
Assist API is a Microsoft-owned application with the Application ID 2b8844d8-6c87-4fce-97a0-
fbec9006e140. In Microsoft Entra audit events, you can see the service principal ID of the Assist
API application for your tenant. The service principal ID is unique to your tenant.

--- Page 2185 of 2193 ---
To find the service principal ID in your tenant, follow these steps:
1. Sign in to the Microsoft Entra admin center .
2. From the left navigation bar, select Entra ID to expand it, and then select Enterprise Apps.
3. In the Enterprise applications | All applications page, under Manage, select All
applications.
4. Select the Application Type == filter.
5. In the Application type window, select All Applications from the dropdown, and then
select Apply.
6. In the Search by application name or object ID search box, search for the Application ID
2b8844d8-6c87-4fce-97a0-fbec9006e140.
Your unique service principal ID is displayed.
What level of access does Microsoft Support have
in my tenant?
The level of access is captured as Delegated Admin Service Provider Constraints, using the
Microsoft 365 Support Engineer role. To see the read permissions that are granted, see
Microsoft Entra built-in roles: Microsoft 365 Support Engineer.
７ Note
Use the Microsoft 365 Support Engineer role only for Microsoft Support cases. Don't
assign this role to other users in your organization.
For more information, see the following articles:
What's new in Microsoft Entra RBAC documentation.
Roles not shown in the Microsoft Entra admin center.
Microsoft 365 Support Engineer role.
What information can Microsoft Support access?
Microsoft Support accesses only the information needed to troubleshoot and resolve your
support case. Depending on the nature of your support request, the data that Microsoft
Support can access falls under the categories listed in the following table:

--- Page 2186 of 2193 ---
ﾉ Expand table
Category Examples
Support data: All data provided to Microsoft by Support requests from customers and phone
the customer as part of a customer engagement conversations, online chat sessions, or remote
to obtain support services. assistance sessions between support professionals
and customers.
Case notes and records related to support requests
from customers.
Data provided to Microsoft by the customer as part
of support activities.
Account data: Contact, billing, purchase, Customer's provisioning information.
payment, and license information.
Account configuration and billing data.
Tenant administrator contact information, such as
tenant administrator's name, address, e-mail address,
phone number.
Licensing and purchase information.
System metadata: Data generated in the course Event logs.
of running the service.
Access control logs.
Account information belonging to Microsoft
operations personnel.
Microsoft server names and server IPs.
Server patching and vulnerability data.
Service configuration data.
Telemetry (on-premises or cloud).
Organization information: Data that can be used Tenant ID (non-GUID).
to identify a particular tenant, deployment, or
organization (generally configuration or usage Tenant ID (GUID) due to the existence of many out of
data). boundary Tenant ID to name mapping tables.
Tenant usage data.
Tenant IP addresses (IPv4), such as tenant's firewall IP
address.

--- Page 2187 of 2193 ---
Category Examples
Global prefix and subnet ID (first 64 bits of IPv6
address).
Tenant domain name in e-mail address, such as
joe@contoso.com.
Mapping of organizational GUID to organization.
Customer data: Data that directly identifies or User-specific IP address (IPv4).
could be used to identify the authenticated user
of a Microsoft service. User principal name (joe@company.com).
Address book data.
User's machine name.
SIP URI.
Pseudonymous identifiers: An identifier created User GUIDs or PUIDs.
by Microsoft tied to the user of a Microsoft
service. Session IDs.
How long does Microsoft Support have access to
tenant data?
Microsoft Support loses access to your tenant data when the support tenant is removed from
your cross-tenant access settings. This process is automated and directly linked to the lifecycle
of support cases within your tenant.
If a case is open for more than 30 days, access is revoked automatically, provided there
aren't any other, newer cases opened. You can restore access by opening a new support
case or reopening a closed case.
You can revoke access at any time by deleting the Microsoft Support tenant partner in
your cross-tenant access settings. To remove the Microsoft Support tenant, which is listed
as Office 365 with Tenant ID b4c546a4-7dac-46a6-a7dd-ed822a11efd3, see Cross-tenant
access settings: Remove an organization.
Ｕ Caution
If you revoke access manually, Microsoft Support loses the ability to help resolve
your support cases.

--- Page 2188 of 2193 ---
What happens when a support case is closed?
When a support case is closed, Microsoft checks if there are any other active support cases
open. If there are no other active support cases, Microsoft initiates the access revocation
process, which includes multiple steps.
How long is diagnostic data retained in Microsoft
systems?
Microsoft retains diagnostic data related to your support case for up to 28 days after collection.
After this period, Microsoft deletes the data.
For information about how Microsoft protects your data, see Privacy and data management
overview.
Who can create support cases?
Only users assigned one of the following roles can create a support case and the special type
of cross-tenant access policy described in this article. These users can't create or modify any
other type of cross-tenant access policy, except for administrators who have Security
Administrator or Microsoft Teams Administrator role assigned.
Application Administrator.
Authentication Administrator.
Authentication Policy Administrator.
Azure Information Protection Administrator.
Billing Administrator.
Cloud Application Administrator.
Compliance Administrator.
Compliance Data Administrator.
Desktop Analytics Administrator.
Dynamics 365 Administrator.
Exchange Administrator.
Fabric Administrator.
Global Administrator.
Global Secure Access Administrator.
Groups Administrator.
Helpdesk Administrator.
Hybrid Identity Administrator.
Insights Administrator.

--- Page 2189 of 2193 ---
Intune Administrator.
Office Apps Administrator.
Power Platform Administrator.
Privileged Authentication Administrator.
Security Administrator.
Security Operator.
Service Support Administrator.
SharePoint Administrator.
Skype for Business Administrator.
Teams Administrator.
Teams Communications Administrator.
Teams Telephony Administrator.
User Administrator.
Windows 365 Administrator.
For more information about roles in Microsoft Entra ID, see Support least privileged roles.
Related content
Overview: Cross-tenant access with Microsoft Entra External ID.
What are Microsoft Entra audit logs?.
How to customize and filter identity activity logs.
Personnel management overview - Microsoft Service Assurance.
Audit logging and monitoring overview - Microsoft Service Assurance.
Last updated on 02/19/2026

--- Page 2190 of 2193 ---
Microsoft 365 documentation
navigation guide
This topic provides some tips and tricks for navigating the Microsoft 365 technical
documentation space.
Hub page
The Microsoft 365 hub page can be found at https://aka.ms/microsoft365docs and is the entry
point for finding relevant Microsoft 365 content.
You can always navigate back to this page by selecting Microsoft 365 from the header at the top
of every page within the Microsoft 365 technical documentation set:
TOC search
On Microsoft Learn, you can search the content in the table of contents by using the filter search
box at the top:
Version filter

--- Page 2191 of 2193 ---
The Microsoft 365 technical documentation provides content for additional products, including
Office 365 Germany and Office 365 operated by 21 Vianet (China). Features can vary between
these versions, and as such, sometimes the content itself can vary.
You can use the version filter to ensure that you are seeing content for the appropriate version of
Microsoft 365:
Breadcrumbs
Breadcrumbs can be found below the header and above the table of contents, and indicate
where the current article is located in the table of contents. Not only does this help set the
context to what type of content you're reading, but it also allows you to navigate back up the
table of contents tree:
Article section navigation
The right-hand navigation pane allows you to quickly navigate to sections within an article, as
well as identify your location within the article.

--- Page 2192 of 2193 ---
Submit feedback
If you find something wrong within an article, you can submit feedback to the SQL Content team
for that article by scrolling down to the bottom of the page and selecting Content feedback.
Contribute to Microsoft 365 documentation
Did you know that you could edit the content on Microsoft Learn yourself? If you do so, not only
will our documentation improve, but you'll also be credited as a contributor to the page. To get
started, see:

--- Page 2193 of 2193 ---
Microsoft Docs contributor guide
Next steps
Get started with the Microsoft 365 technical documentation.
Last updated on 09/27/2022